# 南美


12 晚上10点从伦敦出发
13 9.50 arrive 圣地亚哥 go to Calama 13:37 or 17.31  住atacama
14 Acatama 住atacama
15 Acatama 住atacama
16 Eve - return to Santiago 12.27-14.31 return ticket 
17 morning - going to patagonia Puerto Natales 8.50-13.17 住PN
18 hiking tour 双峰 住PN
19 自驾一日游 住PN
20 自驾一日游 buffer for weather 住PN
21 Patagonia to El calafe 住El calafe 大巴6h 住El Calafe
22 El Calafe day trip 住El calqafe 住El Calafe
23 El Calafe， El Calafe Buenos Aires，住BA  morning flight 8:27  
24 Buenos Aires住BA
25 Buenos Aires to Santiago morning flight, 玩圣地亚哥，lve in Santiago 
26 12 back to London


Hi Lauretta,

I hope you're doing well.

I wanted to thank you again for arranging my interview with Yemi. I really enjoyed our conversation and learning more about the role and the team. It reinforced my interest in joining The Trade Desk, and I genuinely believe this is the opportunity I'm most excited about.

I wanted to let you know that I've recently received another offer, and they've asked me to make a decision soon, with a potential start date next week. However, The Trade Desk remains my preferred choice. Before making any decisions, I wanted to check whether you might be able to share an update on my interview process or the expected timeline for the next stage. If possible, I would also really appreciate it if the process could be accelerated, given that the other company is hoping for me to start early next week.

I completely understand that these processes take time, and I appreciate that decisions can't always be made immediately. I just wanted to be transparent about my situation in case it's helpful.

Thank you very much, and I look forward to hearing from you.

Kind regards,
Guangmou Jin




<u>**GP**</u> 

**NHS appointment** [https://www.nhsapp.service.nhs.uk/patient/appointments/gp-appointments/booking/start](https://www.nhsapp.service.nhs.uk/patient/appointments/gp-appointments/booking/start)
**Wellesley Road (previously Wellesley Road Practice)** 




<u>**UK visa**</u> 

**UKVI_2LAA058605011**
IHSC499275877
**Name: Guangmou Jin**
**Unique application number: 1212-0001-6033-8972/00**

[https://vcas.tlscontact.com/workflow/appointment-booking?location=gbWND2vcas](https://vcas.tlscontact.com/workflow/appointment-booking?location=gbWND2vcas)


```
Applicants:

```


```
**Guangmou Jin**

```


```
Date & time:

```


```
**May 5, 2026 at 09:15 AM**

```


```
Location:

```


```
**London (Wandsworth) UKVCAS Service Point**

```


```


```


15/4 20:15
M：你干啥呢？
你神经病儿啊哈哈哈哈哈
我在加班

你咋不回我了 坏了吗 不爱了吗

没有 哈哈哈哈 你咋看到的
我进场第二场了
咋能不爱你呢
爱你
加油！！！


* Personal bank statements corresponding to the same period(s) as the payslips showing that the salary has been paid into an account in the name of the person or in the name of the person and their partner jointly - for Miss Tianshu Li for Senior Executive
* Any relevant declarations or third party consent to request verification checks
* The degree certificate for Mr Guangmou Jin to prove the level of English language required
* A letter from the employer(s) who issued the payslips confirming
* 1. the employment;
* 2. the gross annual salary;
* aer3. how long the employment has been/was held;
* 4. the period over which the person has been paid the level of salary stated in their application; and
* 5. the type of employment (permanent, fixed-term contract or agency) - for Miss Tianshu Li for Senior Executive
* Copy of an ID document of the owner of the property you live in, such as a passport
* Payslips covering a period of 6 months prior to the date of application - for Miss Tianshu Li for Senior Executive
* Items of correspondence addressed to Mr Guangmou Jin and Miss Tianshu Li at the same address as evidence you have been living together since your last grant of leave in this category, or from the date you first started living together, covering the last 2 years
* You must provide at least 6 items of correspondence, addressed to you and your partner jointly or in both your names. The dates of the items of correspondence should be spread evenly over the whole 2 years. They should be from at least 3 different sources. If you do not have enough items in your joint names, you may also provide items addressed to each of you individually if they show the same address for both of you. For example - 4 items of correspondence in joint names to the same address and 2 items addressed to each partner at the address. In total 8 items would need to be submitted. If you and your partner have no bills or correspondence in joint names, you will need to submit 12 items (6 each) of correspondence evidencing that you reside together at the same address.
* Examples of acceptable evidence include:
	* Letters or other documents from government departments or agencies, for example HM Revenue and Customs, Department for Work and Pensions, DVLA, TV Licensing
	* Letters or other documents from your GP, a hospital or other local health service about medical treatments, appointments, home visits or other medical matters
	* Bank statements or letters
	* Building society savings books or letters
	* Council tax bills or statements
	* Electricity or gas bills or statements
	* Water rates bills or statements
	* Mortgage statements or agreement
	* Tenancy agreement(s)
	* Telephone bills or statements
* Evidence of Miss Tianshu Li's immigration status in the UK
* Proof of property ownership from the owner of the property you live in, such as a mortgage statement
* Letter signed by the owner of the property you live in stating that you have permission to live there
