# 许鞍华


And other times people brought projects to you. So I wonder if you could just tell us a bit about the story behind this one, how this project started. Yes. This is my third film. I made The Secret in 1979, and then Spooky Bunch in 1980. And we started almost shooting this film also in 1980 or 1981. And at that time, the first film, the bosses asked us to present them stories for the first film. So we gave them the story of The Secret. And then the second film was initiated by the producer, Sim Hong Hong. She said she wanted a ghost story, which is funny. And the third film, I was working with a new script writer, and we presented several stories to the bosses. And actually, the story of Moo Viet is the story after my own heart, because ever since I started getting to know the refugees, Vietnamese refugees in Hong Kong, I found out quite a lot about them. I wanted to do a story. But then the moment I said I wanted to shoot the movie in Chinatown, especially in the States, they refused because it would be double the budget of an ordinary non-costume drama film. But then, so when we presented the story to the script writer, he was very excited. So the both of us went to the bosses and asked, told them we wanted to shoot. He said, oh, well, you can shoot in Chinatown, but not in the States, but in the Philippines. Because all over the world, there are Chinatowns. If you don't believe it, you go with the script writer to the Philippines, to Chinatown, and then have a look. If you are satisfied, I think we can afford to go to the Philippines. So we went for maybe a week, and then we came back, and then we started writing the story for the movie. And then afterwards, we shot very quickly afterwards. Thank you. So now, any questions from the audience? Any comments? Anybody has anything they'd like to ask Anne? Yesterday, everyone had their hands up, so please silence them. Okay. Please go ahead. I've got a microphone. Thank you, and it was a wonderful film. I really enjoyed it. I had a question about one of the scenes I thought was really arresting. Can you speak louder? Sorry, yeah. I had a question about, firstly, thank you. It was a really beautiful film. I had a question about one of the scenes I thought was really arresting, but I find it difficult to contextualise in the context of the rest of the film. And that was the scene relatively early on after Juliet's come to the Philippines. And there's a really beautiful shot of the transvestite character outside in the street singing. He's just been dumped by his boyfriend. And I wonder if you could talk a bit more about that scene and the role you see it playing in the narrative. The scene of what? The transvestite cross-dressing character on the street. What do you want to ask about? Is that a woman or a man? I think that's our hairdresser. Oh, she's a transvestite too. And what was the role of that scene in the narrative? Why did you want to have that scene in there? Because at that time in 1980, there were lots of transvestites. Can I call them transvestites? Is that okay? Lots of transvestites in Jakarta. No, in the Philippines, in Manila. So we thought it would be like a local colour. Because in Hong Kong, they are not visible. That's a very good point. I remember around that time, the first time when I went to Manila as well, I was trying to understand the whole kind of gay, queer scene there. And the thing that was really obvious at that time was there were so-called ladyboy scenes everywhere in Manila, but almost nothing that I would recognise as a gay bar. Very few. So that was very definitely part of the context in Manila at that time. I was quite disappointed, I remember, with the very, what do you call it, the hairstyle. Because the hairstyle is so sedate, I would think she's got this kind of hair. But then later, I thought, oh, it's the hairstyle which resembles that of Cherry Chong. So maybe it's a kind of feminine representation. Any other questions? Any other comments? Thank you. And thank you very much for the film, as well as Masterclass yesterday. I have another question about the production process. You mentioned that the film was shot in 1980, and it was premiered in 1984. It was shown in 1984? Yeah. I remember very clearly the production was like, the crew, they were sort of either for maybe a month, a month and a half. The total shooting days of the film was 45 days, including 17 days in Hong Kong before, which was mostly cut because I was not very satisfied with the way the script was going. So very little was left behind. And we expended on the part in Manila, but we don't have enough money to shoot it all the time. So we tried to squeeze everything together and just shot it. And Zhou Yunfa at that time, every day he would go to the market with low air and cook for the crew. And he was a very good cook, too. Because he made, I remember distinctly, we had rice and we had shrimp, big prawns cooked in tomato sauce. I mean, not all the time, but maybe quite frequently he cooked for us. I mean, there would be 30 people. Was this one of his first starring films? Oh, yes. It was his first starring film role. He was already very famous in television. And how did you come to decide he was the right person for this role? I saw him in TV and I met him in person in TVB, I mean, about five years before. And an actor friend of mine who acted in my TV series told me he thought that Zhou Yunfa was a very good actor. And so I never tried or talked with him. I just met him maybe in a subway. I gave him the script and he was very, very happy. In fact, he initiated some kind of a rebellion because he was very, very hot. He always said to shoot TV and he asked for a holiday to shoot our movie. And TVB refused. And so he really disappeared. I mean, how do you call it? He doesn't answer phones of the studio. Until TVB executives came to my boss and told me to release him. The long and the short of it was I had to try to persuade him to go back to TV first before we shot his film because it's very important for his career. That's the story. So he really was very determined because he had a contract with the studio. But he still sort of rebelled against the studio and wanted to shoot this movie. But I felt very apologetic. I mean, I was always feeling apologetic because I think a lot of the action sequence wasn't good enough because the action sequence in Hong Kong at that time was very high. And we can only afford to employ Ching Siu-Tung, who is the action master. He did the action sequences for Hero, Danny Mok, later. And he himself is a very good director as well. We can only hire him for one week. So I have to give him the important scenes, like the scene in the jeep where somebody falls off and the last scene. But some of the action sequences I just shot myself. I mean, especially the scene with the gunfights. It was... I felt so... I'm very... Not very confident about it. Are you happy with the result? Actually, I'm not very happy with the result of this film. But I put my hopes on Bob Peeple, which has three times the budget and three times the length of time for the shoot. And, I mean, you're always so self-critical. It's interesting to see that. It's true. I mean, I'm just not satisfied. I mean, I can't help myself. I'm not trying to say anything. Always go higher. Always go higher. Yes? Yes. Too late now, though. In terms of... You just said that Bob Peeple's budget was three times higher. Was that partly because of this film, of getting attention and critical success? I mean, that was a different question. I mean, they gave me... Because Bob Peeple was not financed by... It was financed by... who's one of the richest persons in Hong Kong. And he was... How do you call it? Very sympathetic to mainland China. And this is a sort of a production supported by the Chinese government. And this guy gave the money. And so he gave three times as much as any film. And then they also gave us certain guidances for shooting in Hainan Island instead of in real Vietnam. And at that time, it was supposed to be a kind of propaganda against the Vietnamese government. Because I think China was at war with Vietnam in 1979. So that's the whole idea. But later it was so incredibly inconceivable that it was sort of received as an attack on communist China. I was banned from both sides. I was just, you know, out to shoot a simple story of people escaping from suffering. Really. Let's go back to Juliet. Sorry. No, no, no, no. I asked the question. Oh, yeah. So they asked me to shoot this movie. And I have to go back to China to shoot because it's in Hainan Island. And at that time, Taiwan was a big market. If I shoot in mainland China, I will be banned from Taiwan. So no director wanted to do it. But I was so attracted to the story that I would do it anyhow. So all my friends came and talked to me and said, please don't do it because you will ruin yourself. You won't get a chance to shoot any movie if it is not successful. Or even if it is successful, it's going to have difficulties in how you screen and that kind of thing. And I just didn't listen. Because it's not that I was so passionate about the project. I was too lazy to decide the pros and cons. So I just went ahead. So I just shot it. And even Alan Fong, he really called me seriously one day and told me not to do it. Because it's such a big risk for a new director. But am I very courageous? I don't think so. It's a kind of foolhardy instinct. Because I thought, OK, if I get banned in Taiwan, then I'll shoot in China. Or if I can't shoot in China and get banned as well, I'll shoot commercials. I was thinking like that. Or if not, I'll go back to teaching. Anyone got any questions? Can we get a microphone? Sorry, I'd already handed the microphone to this gentleman in the back. My question is actually related to what I've just said. So do you have a particular audience in mind when you're shooting? I know about movie, but not about people. Because it's like an ordinary action movie, but set in the Philippines. Because lots of movies like that were shot in Hong Kong at that time. But then, of course, it's about Vietnamese refugees as well. So would you envision Vietnamese refugees themselves? Our Hong Kong audience liked it. Nice. Thank you. Just a quick question, because I'm not very understanding of this film before. So how did Robin shape his song related to this film? It was sort of recorded later. I mean, afterwards we said... Because at that time, they usually have a song at the end of the movie or use a song for the movie or promotion purposes. But I refused to have a song in the middle of the film. So I said you can use it for any publicity. So it's a theme composed by the musician. And then later it was made into a hit song, which came out with the film at the same time. I'm sorry, once I get tired, I can't speak English. We have another question at the back. This one? I just got a brief question about the last part in the restaurant. You got down from the toilet. That kind of reminds me of Godfather. Did you deliberately design it to haunt me? In fact, we did the research in the Philippines, and that was the real event. And so I was so attracted that I knew that it was a Godfather. But I still use it as well. Oh, so that's the coincidence. It's exactly like Godfather. Thank you. I'm a little bit curious about the character, the pen friend of Moon Bin. She is a very stable woman with a big house and a good job. But I'm confused why she likes him. Is it just love, or does it mean something deeper? No, no, no. You see, in our generation, pen friends are very romantic. You don't have them anymore. You write to pen friends for years, and then suddenly you get married. It was her childhood, I mean. I find it very strange that, maybe I'm not so good at sharing love stories, but everybody always asks me, why does a girl fall in love with a man? There's no reason. It's not explained why somebody falls in love. I mean, because of this or that, or because he helps her across the road or something, no? I just cannot explain it, because I feel it. Okay, anybody else? In the back there. The story feels very different from today, and it's a special time. I have a general question about how do you feel now, looking back, about this film, and also whether you're feeling about this early work that you've changed or shifted over the years? I haven't watched this for maybe at least 10 years. But then, maybe the last time I saw it, I felt it was one of the better films. I mean, it still sort of worked for me. Except for the sound, which is quite awful now. Because it's dubbed. It's not just in sound. I guess that also would help making the shooting a bit easier back then. Yes. Okay, we have another question at the front here. This sort of leads off from that last question. Both people got a 4K restoration a couple of years ago. And Visible Secret, as well, has just been restored. Which of your films would you now like to be reappraised and restored? I didn't initiate them, because I don't own the films. And then it's sort of on and off. Someone would want to restore it, and so they restored it. And so far, they've restored The Secret. ...and so they restored it, and so far they've restored the secret. They're now restoring the Spooky Brunch. This has a restoration, and then, uh, uh, the, uh, for people who got, uh, also a Blu-ray, uh, uh, restoration, and, uh, three or four others, I'm not sure. If you had control... No, I don't... No, but if you did, if you did, what would your next one be? Um, let me see. Um, um, you know, uh, maybe, uh, maybe, uh, Ordinary Heroes. Uh, okay. Any particular... Maybe, uh, Song of Aesop. Uh-huh. That's the one I'd like to see restored. Yes. Because it's, yeah, so difficult to get a good access to a good copy. Yeah. Anything else? Yes, here in the middle. I was quite surprised to hear, uh, that you've been banned quite a few times. I wonder, I mean, having been, being a veteran of being banned for your films that are, you know, that talk to the human condition so clearly, um, what do you feel now? Does it say anything to you, being banned multiple times? Um, about being banned? Yeah, you know, some people were like, well, I must be doing something right, and other people think, you know, it's... You know, like, uh, really, uh, filmmaking for me is, at that time when I started, it was, uh, like a game. It was fun, and it was a challenge. I didn't get any money out of it, very little. And I worked very, very hard. Actually, I mean, and then at that time, it's, uh, so many people are making movies, and you don't even get a red carpet or that kind of thing, no. And the, um, the awards haven't started yet in Hong Kong. Maybe we go to Cannes, you know, but then we don't get a prize, because, and that kind of thing. So, I really make movies because I love to do it. And it's a very kind of magical period. Like, everybody was like that somehow, because all my crew were young people, you know, and scriptwriters, and we all started together. And then, uh, this can never be repeated, because for one thing, when you're old, everything is different. Because, and also, um, if you become very successful or very famous, then you get very scared and nervous about losing your position. And when you shoot movies with that kind of mindset, uh, it's not fun anymore. It's like, oh, you must have this, this, this, this, this. And then they say, uh, you must ask for this and ask for this. I, I just don't bother, you know. I mean, uh, and so it was, and when I think about it, I really wish I could do it again. I mean, do the same thing with those early films. But in the middle films, maybe I had, it was agony, because I didn't know what to do. And in the later films, sometimes I'm very tired. So, it's like, um, I don't regret those things, you know, very much, because I, I don't really shoot a movie for money. I do shoot a movie for a livelihood, because that's my job. With the banning, with any of the banning... I was, I was very, uh... Long term? I was proud of being banned. That's what I wanted to do With the banning, was any of the banning long-term? I was proud of being banned. That's what I wanted to hear. Good to be proud of being banned. Yeah. And another question here. Sorry, since I'm sitting next to her, I thought it's easier for me to take a word off mic and ask the question. I think you have been assistant to King Wu. Yeah. So I believe he's affected you, taught you a lot of things. Because I really love King Wu's movie about Dragon King and all these stuff. Has he been a good mentor for you? Oh, fantastic. Tell us a bit more about working with King Wu. I haven't worked with him. I mean, I was only in his office for three months. But I mean, like, as a personality. Like, he's extremely dedicated and an extremely interesting person. Because he reads, he read all the time. And he was very knowledgeable about art and then all kinds of books. I'm really interested in. He wrote a book on the future, did research and all that. And then he painted his own posters. So he's a very, very nice person. Because at that time, there was really, I never imagined that about this feminism thing. Because he was very kind to women. I mean, he doesn't treat me like I don't know anything, you know. Very, like, all his other colleagues. And so, and then he works very hard as well. But a little bit too hard. Because, like, in those days, the director is also the lighting man. I mean, he knows about lights. And then he makes all the props and then that kind of thing. So he has to work extra hard. Because there is no, it's not like nowadays when every head of the costume team, they know everything. It's like the director is the head of everything. And he wrote his own scripts. Hi, thank you. Just wondering how, what kind of role did you play in the story? So, you know, was this your idea? And then the scriptwriter implements it? You know, where did you find it? And was it a collaboration between you and the script? How did it start? I forgot. Like, I went to Vanilla with the scriptwriter. The scriptwriter was a very young guy. I was quite young myself. I think he's about 10 years younger. And he just graduated from college. And we were chatting a lot in RTHK. And then he showed me some of his writings. And I found that a lot of his writings was very good and very funny. So I said, will you write a script? So he said, okay. And we started that. And then maybe we talked about the story. I mean, what kind of story. I went to Vanilla, Chinatown. Can you tell us a little bit about your background research? Because I know, not necessarily solely with this film, but also with Boy From Vietnam before, you've done a lot of work to understand the situation of the refugees from Vietnam. Right? And you'd met them. So could you tell us a bit about that? The Boy From Vietnam story was also based on the story of a young boy in Hong Kong who was really a refugee. And he acted in Boy From Vietnam. I think he was about 15 then and came on that boat. And then when we met him, he was working in one of the earliest Vietnamese restaurants run by refugees in Hong Kong. It was very good. So I said he should act as the main character. And most of the other characters, especially the extras, are real Vietnamese refugees. And from there, and when we were shooting, we had to shoot some of the scenes supposedly in Vietnam, in Saigon. And we found that in Macau, in Macau, there are lots of buildings, because they're both French buildings. So I got interested in the story before they left, because I liked the buildings and the staircases, and the kind of feeling of these old guys and very beautiful women in these straw hats riding bicycles. So I got on to research more about what happened before they left. At that time, there was very little written things, and I only got hold of, I remember, just one hour documentary about Saigon at that time. And then a lot of the story about people was based on a Japanese novel, two Japanese novels. One of the Japanese novels was, I forgot the name of the writer, but he was very famous then in the 70s, and it was about a Japanese journalist during Saigon. And some of his observations about the war and people were so pertinent. It's not the sequences, because they were based on real events, but then the kind of atmosphere. Like he said, as a correspondent, he would be going up on a cyclo, and then go to have breakfast, and then spend a long day, that kind of thing. So we've got time for one more question. Okay. The final question is down the front here. I want to ask a question about shooting location. So you choose... Like what? Shooting location, filming location. Ah. Okay, so you choose Hainan Island as the filming location for The Poor People. So can I ask if there is any specific reason for shooting in Hainan in geographical camera or something? No symbolic reason. Because they recommended that I should shoot it in Hainan, because I obviously can't shoot this movie in Vietnam. It's against the Vietnamese government. And then they said that Hainan is on the same latitude as Da Nang, somewhere in central Vietnam. And then the topography, the vegetation, the weather was like Vietnam. So a lot of the buildings, because we shot it in Haiku, the capital at that time, but now if you go to Haiku, it's completely different. So we shot that in Hainan, just for the sake of the location. Thank you. I'm from Hainan, so quick poll. I'm from Hainan, I'm from Hainan, so... I recognize it, right? Hainan and Danjiang. So both people will screen on Monday at 6pm, if I remember correctly. And so hopefully we'll see some of you there. And now please join me in thanking Ann Hoy. Thank you. 