# And then, you may have #um. You came onto his film with a very personal…

# 

And then, you may have #um. You came onto his film with a very personal connection to its subjects through your father I gather. And my father was born in 19 no. Yeah, 1920, that was last century, right? Yes. In Warsaw, and he was from pretty poor Jewish family, very, like, intelligent boy. and who became pretty quickly, very revolutionary, because of the polish of the sanitism, which I think post him for some kind of radical thinking. And he contacted in some point, and he was very old, he was eight, 9 years old. Um, the, uh, the police newspaper observed, right? This was the part of the daily or weekly, weekly and Jewish newspaper and Polish for the well-nuts, mostly for the indelligence, yeah, and a little left. and the Yanushkopzak, who is seen on the screen, and who was revolutionary, better dog, and writer, and also a medical doctor, and he had many talents and many, many very, like, new thinking. And here the idea that to create, with one of his close collaborator, with his Polish writer, Eagle Netherly, created the newspaper, which was pub, weekly pub of that, of that, um, uh, for children, but um, edited and written by children. So the children have been the, the, the journalists and also the editors and with the little help from, from Natalie and with some very discrete supervising from Yamush project. And my father came there to the newspaper and said that that is very bourgeois, what they are writing, that he has idea, we need revolutionary writing, and he has a very good gun, he bought the gun someway, so I don't know how he had the gun. And he became the part of that of that of that group of people, young people, children, and he came for himself and never was, right? And some was very important. Um, He wasn't in Poland. My father during the 2nd World War. He flew to the east, and he spent a while in South Union, and was in the army, and when he came with the army, with Polish Communist army, back to Poland, and he supposed that he would meet his family and found his home in his apartment in the city, Warsaw, where he lived before the war. But, uh, The city was totally destroyed, the 90%, and his family was killed by Germans, murdered by Germans. And so he found no one. And got shot was dead as well. And all the children, back the way, cooking his friends and collaborators in the newspapers. But Natalie was he in life and then they remained friends after after the war. I found in Netherlands, Sam, who is also the writer in his diary. The story when he came with his father to visit my father, he was like 10 years old boy. And I was just born. So my father wanted to present the baby girl to his friend, and never was very discussed by my name. He said Agneshka, that is the name of the servants. So anyway, my father, I think that the child of the war of the Holocaust was so deep that he never talked to me about his experience during the war and he never talked to me about his family. I even didn't know what's been the name of my grandparents till much later. And I fell after his death. when he was buried in Warsaw Cemetery, his sister on the survivor from the family. They put also the symbolically the name of their parents and their dead sister. And like that, in the age of 14 or 15. I read what was their names. But he always talked to me about Yamos culture. It means Yanushkopzak became my real grandfather, and he became not only my grandfather, but he became also one of the most inspiring figure. in my development in my, if my, education somehow, human education, and also he became one of my favourite writers because he wrote several books. Few of her grown-ups and few for children. And I think personal that is one of the, this is few of the best writing in federal literature in the world, the King Macho the Past, and Kaitan the Wizard, Kaitan the Wizard, is like the Faust for children, and King Macho the Past. It's like the Shakespeare for children. So they are very deep and not, not really easy, not, not like, don't have that kind of the optimist they have, but they have like the deep knowledge of the humans destiny inside mechanism which makes people which forced people how to dream and how to believe, but in the same time, in the background is always very deep disappointment about the human nature. So they are not the easy lecture, but they are extremely inspired. So when Andre, I had them suddenly the project and it was brought to him by British, I think British, he was a producer. Um, He was thinking immediately about myself to add the script. The producer wasn't very happy with that. He actually asked the writer of Gandhi, I shall buy it, write the spirit, and he did. He loved this book. Vida found absolutely stoking. And so it was very long process, you know, and it's supposed to be in English, and and finally, I started and I got the contract from the producer, and Larry was his name. And when I became the political immigrant in Paris, it was that moment when it was finalised and somehow it saved my life because I, you know, I didn't know what to do. I was like suddenly out of my country, out of my language, out of everything. And I had the child to take care of. So writing culture was like the perfect, perfect occasion to spend the time and to make some money and to come back to something which was the essential for me in Paris, which was such city than for me. I want to come back to the process and some of the elements in the film. But perhaps we could jump back a little bit in time to... I will, but I will, maybe to finish. Yes, that's, you know, with that time. Oh, that's fine. You did bring... I wrote, I decided that it will be not right and not honest. To write about culture, the last chapter, the chapter of his masterhood. and to stab the film in the ghetto. I wanted to like tell his story since he was a tribe himself and after all the adventure. Of course, the script had 350 pages. So in some point it fell apart. And after, yeah, after, no, much later, and, and they said, I have to make that in Polish and in Poland, and in black and white. And it has to be about that last period, but you are smart, and you can reflect as much as you know about him, like, you know, past or somehow, in that situation, in that the most dramatic and the most challenging, coming moment time of his life. I think, actually, this touches on something I want you to ask, because when we see the opening of the film, we're introduced to this incredible character, and what we get, and it's, for anyone who's either, um, previously seeing the films of Bondravado is currently watching them in this retrospective, what we get with this film, like so many of these other films, and likewise, like your films, is the essence of a character. in that 1st 15, 20 minutes. Um, and I was just wondering about the conversations that you and Andre Guider had about that 1st session. And particularly, I'm fascinated that we opened the film with him in the radio studio. And he's essentially talking about the nature of altruism and the line, I don't sacrifice my turn itself at all. I don't do it for them, but for me, don't believe it when someone speaks of sacrifice, it's false and deceitful. It's an extraordinary opening because it's someone saying, I'm doing this for selfish reasons, and yet those reasons are extraordinarily altruistic. Well, yeah, no, it was full contact. He miss his chemistry and his courage, you know, to explore the truth about himself, about others, and the same way he was watching at the children, every single child. He was never watching the children. He was always watching the child. And his speeches in the radio, extremely popular. They've been hiding somehow. His real name was Henry Greenberg. It was Jewish name. And he changed it in some point, but by writing some popular things, Brianushkovcha. And in the radio, he was old doctor, it means, was nameless somehow. And they, yeah, they hired him not a long time before, you know. a little sooner than they are showing in the film. When I'm doing biographical film, it's why I have the problems with the biographical things. I met some and I wrote some. The problem with the biographical film is exactly that all, or you tell empire life, of the most important parts of the entire life, like liner area, or with the flashbacks, or you are picking some moment in the life where you try to include as much of the of the of the essence, as if possible. But in any case, you are spending like probably 60% of your storytelling energy and by staging information. like dramatising information. And it makes it always a bit fatty, right? And somehow, somehow fake, you know, because the living figure, living being, is not existing in the information about themselves. They are just living good life. So when I was doing the film issue, some of you maybe will see tomorrow, sounds about trans Kafka. I try to shake completely that kind of the regular classical story. But contact is a bit classical, that spicy. It is, but it's frozen right into his world from the asset. We don't have sort of a preamble, an introduction. There's something about being immersed into this world straight away. And I was just thinking about some of the other Vider films that have been extremely popular over the last few weeks, mana Marvel, man of mine. Explorations, not just of a political landscape, but of a character, a complex character, of constantly pulling away, but peeling away the layers of this character. and I feel that's what we get with this film. Well, you know, he was, especially in the last 10, 15 years of his life, or maybe 12, right? And by the hero of our times, who is the hero of our times, who is someone who can be, who can be the character, the destiny, the choice, which will wake up our moral imagination, which will make us to follow himself. And go check with one of the kara, even if he, the field of his interest was quite far away from, from Zailas, field of interest, right? I was never especially interested in the children. And in the animals, yes, Japanese, right? So it took him some time till he like was able to enter the world of car track, but his choices have been very close to him, the moral choices. And did it help, um, because this is, this is 1990s that this film was released, and by this point in time, you, you grew up watching early films of Bondravado, Andre Ida, and then you started working within his, his film team from very early on. So by the time you reach this point, Was the relationship quite easy? Were there a lot of sort of unspoken communications with you, uni, what he would be looking for? He knew what you could deliver. Yeah, because also the producer of my film. He then wanted to adopt me at some point. Seriously? yeah. Because I my father died tragically during the interrogation and he became like the very unpleasant name for a communist government, and after I went to Prague, to study there, and I went to prison by myself. It is not because of my father, but because of my political activity. And when I came back to Poland, where I was practically on the black place, I was, and in script, I was... The writing was refused by the authorities. And in that point, Vaida offered me to be disassisted, or Man of Marvel. Men of marble have been the film, which was on the screenplay was in the sense of 13 years, and suddenly it was grimly because the new minister of Carpet, of more liberal, came. But it was closely watched by the path out there, because it was very risky pill for them. And suddenly they seem that my name is a assistant, but with that skill is connected to the film. They said it's absolutely impossible that the fire, right? And so it was the 1st big, like, wave of the solidarity of the metal, because many people got better, the younger person, and the crew went on the stripes, you know, the... And in that moment, by the, um, offered me to adopt him, to give me his name. which was very touching, of course, but I was married in the time and something I wanted to change my name. But anyway, and anyway, finally for the compromise, they ask him to fire me, but they really like 2 of my projects. So I started to correct like, you know, which, of course, was not better for me. And I still remained in that film, I was writing some things and playing something for him. So anyway, our relationship became very close and very friendly. And I, when I was writing for him, I knew what, because he, he, very easily he, he became bored, you know? He had the script for 4 months, and after, he started his, well, did his brain started to work in different direction, and he was still here on the first, so he wanted to change it, for example, that he was too polite or too afraid, I mean, too coabrish. I don't know, to ask the initial screenwriter to make the change. So he was asking me or some other colleagues of mine who've been with a good writer, and that we've been doing it for him, and this was very unfelt to the initial writers somehow. I did it even to example, yeah, because I, we, we went and downtown. But anyway, uh, And I didn't want when I was writing for him as a main writer, like in a rap fitment or in contract. I didn't want to be in the same position, the lessons and, you know, mother Packer will come and... So I entered his head, you know, and then as always, before putting this in some paper, I was telling him what is in the scene and how it works, and imitated the dialogues and so, and when he was saying, oh, yeah, no, beautiful, beautiful. I knew that it's bullshit. I had to see settle in the fire in his eyes, at the kind of the excitement, and then he started to move. Then they say, okay, I got it. And I put it on the paper. I should say at this point in time, the motherfucker is actually a professional term false, fellow screenwriter. One thing I've always wanted to ask you. I knew that you had done some work on that Marvel and the protagonist in that is Aneshka. That is that is not me exciting. Pure coincidence. The assassin is, when the permanent is written, it was that same, so it wasn't... It was that was in the last for a while. It was sad also, but it is some writer. And she was studying the film school and she was like... But after, because I got in the green light, that film, I was shooting when they prepared for the shooting of the man of Marlborough, and when I was sending Kristin Ayanda to visit me on the set and to upset me. I think that I didn't behave like her. Um, just to come back to the culture, obviously, you had his diaries to work from, which he was writing very much up and up until the last minute. Aside the fact you wanted to focus on a small period of his life and yes, the original screenplay was much longer. But what were the biggest challenges that you felt that you faced in trying to encapsulate this life? Well, to show the complexity, not to be too educational, not to be too moralistic, you know, not to be pretty, it wasn't easy, yeah. But I was very happy with this script. I was a little angry with Viola that he didn't focus on the shooting as much as he should. 







