# Oh, hi, Christ.. Hi. I. Is your camera on or is it? Oh, there. Yeah…

# 

Oh, hi, Christ.. Hi. I. Is your camera on or is it? Oh, there. Yeah, yeah, yeah.fect. Thank you, Mike, for joining us today. We appreciate it. Oh, thank you, too. You. Yeah. Yeah, Chris, did you get a chance to do an introduction? If not, we can go around and do that. No, you joined the exact same same time as me. All right, perfect, perfect. Well, Mike, again, thanks for joining us. We are talking to you, of course, because we are looking for a candidate for our desktop support analyst. rule out in our London. We're not in London Brock and I are here in the United States and Baltimore. Chris is operating out of our Norfolk office. No, we do have a sizeable U.S. group here, but we have two analysts in London and you are potentially looking to fill one of those two support balls. Sure. My name is John. I managed the entire of 14 here, and then I'll let Brock and Chris truce themselves. Yeah, quick int from my end. My name is Brock Smith. I am a team lead here at Brown advisory. My team primarily handles the all boarding, all boarding for the firm, and then whatever else may get from our way in a day. And I have been with the firm now for 10 years. Okay. Thank you. My name is Chris Blanchard and I am the other desktft support team lead here at about advisory. I manage a lot of our regional office folks, so that includes the London office, so both of the technicians that are in that space do report directly to me. I bet with brown advisory for about six and a half years. Oh, okay, that's quite a long time. Okay. Great, thank you. So we' yeah, we're really excited to learn more about you. Can you tell us a little bit about yourself and then also why you are looking for a new opportunity today? Oh, yeah. So I'm Mike. I'm originally from China. I'm based in London now. I came to the UK on 2020 for my master degree. at Coventry University of London Compass, and I graduate in 2021 with Dinction. And I after that, I joined a company where I provided IT support for Ali Baba Group, and I worked for there for one year the main responsibility is providing daily IT support for over 500 user across almost 10 offices. And in addition, I also handle unbolding and boarding process, also responsible for the VC and the even support. In my last job, I worked in Lotus car as an IT support analyst. The company have two factory in Hassel and a design company in Basin Coventry. So the London company is related to the commercial, and when I joined, it just hadn't been established and I was the first I person in the new company. And the IT processes didn't exist at this this time. I built almost from the zero and keep improving the company has expanded. My manager and the rest of the ITM basically in Coventry in another city, and it's almost take a year before they fully migration into our entity, and during that time, I was handled most of the I work in London to support 300 user at the time, and after migrationrighted him and we also also have desk vender support more than than all global user around the 800 user across seven countries, I think. My main responsibility in that role is a second line support, so also I'm leading and running on voting and the voting process. I also have is the owner of the ASSI management. Also, I'm the person of the contact for our first line HD commander. So before I came to the UK for my master degree, I worked for about seven years in Malaysia and China. The main mainly focus on the H and Holy Packard and a real real Aztec company. So I think because it's a little bit a company designed to close the Linda office in Lutus, so HR offered me to relocate to Coventry, but my partner also working in London, so the relocation together will be quite difficult. So I designed to a better point to leave the lootus. That makes sense. Thank you for that.. You talked a little bit about your support work, and you do have a lot of experience. That's great. Tell me a little bit about the kinds of systems. So specifically workstations where they Mac OS Windows,, something else, and then mobile device to email your support experience in that area, managing mobile devices as well. Sure, sure. So I was acting like a job in Lotus. I'm acting like on I suppose so is including supporting and user device, both software and soft hardware, close Windows MI, IY, we don't have Andro user, so I also handle user domin company and AD. for that part is a little bit complicated because we have old company, Coventry, they are designed team, so they use AD, we are using AD, so after Coventry anity mury to us, we transfer to the using AD at the moment. So they think AD and AAD together. And in addition, I looked for after office equipment, including daily check for the old office equipment, maintaining hard desks and printer network device also supports our VC system. We also have a 20 meeting room, and also I need to in charge of the internal events. Actually, the r was very much like a combination of the board's first post first line and the second line supp. So because the Linda office just set up for two years ago, everything moved fast and a many issues were urgent. So users don't always go through the ticket system on the first year. So they often message us directly or just co- us on teams and we need to jump immediately to support to the traveloubleshooting, and after that, we need to lock the ticket back off. Thank you. All right, so I want to kind of get into a little more of your technical experience and your technical background here. So we're going to ask some questions that are technical in nature, some of them may be very easy, some of them may not be, but that's okay. We're just trying to gauge where you are. Sure, no problem. So for starters, can you tell me what an IP address is? For starters, what's the IP address? No, and what is an IP address? Well, sorry, I don't get theression, sir. Can you explain to me what an IP address is? Oh, IP address is like the network gate we usually have a firewall and we have a networks wonder to supply the network and then we need to go through the network gate and Sorry, I'm not very detailed in the network part, so it's will need to be struggle for me. Sorry. All right. And to follow up on that, would you be able to tell me what the difference is between a public IP and a private IP? Because the Primary IP is more like the internal and network. So almost relate to the company in control. But right now we are using 80, so we're using public IP. So everything on cloud, so it's a little bit different in our side. But we have some servers still in control by the internet. So it's more like internet and you need to access to permission to get access to go inside, user Crix. Usually we will manage the AD through a specific IP address and assessed to match. Thank you. Okay. So you mentioned AD, AD. So within AD, can you tell us the difference between a security group and a distribution group? Oh, yeah. The different security group and sorry, could you repeat the question again? Sorry. Yeah, just asking what the difference is between a security group and a distribution group within active directory? Distribution group? Oh, yeah. The security group is more like security group. Because when I'm because I have an experience with the 80, but it's quite a long time ago in the Holy packacker. So as support support in the almost 10 years ago. And right now we are we usually just go through the AD to control the account management, so it's now go to another part because we have an infructructure manager to do that part. Okay. Okay, great. So we operate mostly with windows in our environment. Yeah. We just finished gr two Windows 11 on all of our laptops. So let's say you have a user come to you with a Windows laptop, and it's stuck at the typical Windows blue screen error. And your job is to find out what exactly caused that blue screen error. Tell me what you would do to figure out the cause. I usually I will go to the windowows system and to check the detail about the arrow log, and usually I will just check on the Google the log arrow and to the troubleshoot through the arrow message. But usually, the format p, reboot the laptop first and try to update some Windows system, do some updates. Let's say in this scenario, instead of a blue screen, it's a black screen screen there, and it just says, no bootable device detected, how would you start your troubleshooting to find out what that issue is? You mean the only black screen at the note when you black the power button nothing happened? Power? So the machine, the screen is powered on there. The screen is black, but it doesn't have an error message on that screen, and it just says, no bootable device detected. How would you find out what that issue is? Oh, usually it's related to the depends. Usually we will try to absolutely turn off the laptop first and try to reboot, and it's the same arearow, I think maybe it's something loose, maybe the the heartache's loose a little bit loose and we will try to rechar it. Or if that have the same arrow, usually we will try to use the PE USB to check is that possible? We can run on the different system. If we can run the PE system means the system is fine and means the h is fine, maybe the system issue when we will try to recover it. Okay, thank you. So in addition to Windows, we've brought outlook and exchange in our environment as well. So we have outlook on users' laptops and on users' mobile devices. So let's say you have someone come to you in London, they have their laptop in one hand, they have their iPhone on the other hand, and they tell you that on the iPhone, in the out of mobile app, everything's working great. They're getting new email, they can send email. However, on the laptop, when they open up what they tell you that they have not received a new email message in the last day or so, right? So the last message that came in was from yesterday. So if you hear this, what would you look for? What would you try to do to fix the problem? I think the main problem is if the phone can receive the email means the email surveys are fine means that accounties are available, but only problem is on the laptop device. So it depends. I think even in AD is the same troubleshooting process, I think I will try to create a new auto profile to test is that okay I running on the new profile. Usually the happen is they receive a lot if the OST file is bigger than 5G will be stuck in somewhere. So I will try to reduce the email ear to receive the ear in the outlook, and I think will be run properly. But if cannot, I will try to ask the user to try to use the if the case is urgent, I will try to ask the user to choose the website to during the work first, and when the user got the time, I can do the travel shooting again. Okay. Thank you. Yeah. All right, so if I ask you how to figure out a colleague's IP address, how would you go about doing that? Oh, yeah, collea.. I think I will try to run the CMD and try to do the IPC freak IP Configuration, IPan Freak, yeah, yeah. And to gather IP address.. Let's say so in London, you may at times be dealing with users, that are stressed out, or because they have, you know, some deadline or some priority they have to meet. Right? So if user comes up to you and they're frustrated, because something isn't working, and they're just, you, very, very irritated. How do you handle that situation, right? When the user standing in front of you at your desk and they don't seem to be listening to you, and they just want to, you know, tell you how everything is not working and how bad everything is. I think the best way is to, because I'm very good at this part because usually the facing the user, I will try to let them count numbers first and to try to see what's the point of the struggle point if cannot, if something need to open our scent immediately, I will try to build a new laptop at the same time to do the tr shooting, usually because we have a lot of the spare laptop, we can try to log the user's account because we're using AD, that everything is a thing on the cloud. So user can use the spare laptop to do the work at the same time, I can do the troubleshooting. If the case is only for like user want to fix that laptop immediately, I will try to explain what's happened. user non technology way to explain what's happened and do some example and ask a user to come down and try to fix that. Yeah, listen. Okay.. So I see you have a good bit of experience within in tune. What are the things that you used in tune for and what was your level of acc access within? Usually we because it's it's a little bit different, because I loot us when I joined the company, we didn't have the infrastructure team, so many of the security and the configuration requirement were handled by our ideal pre team. So that including some task like application management and conditional access as sightings. But after usually we were just some for some approval software, like Adobe required for a team, we would use upload the package to the Yin Chung and the configurate install for the old user's group. But after we hire a M5 manager, our Yin Tun setup become more structured and allies, he will handle the whole thing, but usually we will in charge of the IFA part and also the current creation meant disable. Krista. Thank you. Okay, I need to think back to your entire work history, and I know you have a lot of different positions here. Can you tell me about one of the most challenging technical problems that you worked on, right? And then explained to me what the problem was and what you had to do to get the problem resolved. for this part, usually it's a for example, in my last job, we have a lot of staff change. So sometimes a new joiner need to start urgently, but K now come to the office. in those cases a little bit of struggle. So because we can ship the equipment directly to them, but the device can now be fully configurated before shaping, so many users, especially those without any antib background. are not familiar with the microwace, or island iOS struggle to second things up to the work phone or something. This is a little bit struggle. This is not only one case, so I try to create a guideline at the moment because at the time a frequency happened. So I will send the guideline to them and the con through the team's they will pick up the code on the laptop and we will try to stay online and walk through the everything step at step. I've tried to using simple language, let them know, and show the whole process and guide them clearly. This is the case. Great. Thank you. So I see you have a good bit of experience with on boarding and off boarding, and obviously your resumeé speaks to that. Spec specifically for off boarding, can you kind of walk us through that process from start to finish and basically what you would do for off boarding and? Yeah. off folding process. Firstly, HR need to send us the request from our company. They need to let us know who need to off boarding world time, and we will check the assetet information for asset assistant, and we will mark everything we have we have an assistant named the business persons management assistant, so HR will ticket in there and they will go through the HR manager and the BU leader and the person after that will go through us. and I will update update the user's information like what'sI and username to the process, because everything need to go online. And when we do the auding, they will check that process and after that they will go through the first part is go to us and I will try to reach the lever and to see is that the correct information like the asset. And after that, we will schedule a time to light them to return the equipment. Usually, if they're not come back to the office, I will arrange the DHL to pick up them, but they need to need to package everything by themselves. And after I arrange that, I will go through the account disable and also check like the other license, like Singing cell or Adobe, and when the user and the date, we will try to close everything at a time. And I will also let HR know the detail and if the ass access I cannot reach the lever, I will check with the HR. They need to check with us about the one hour where they can return the equipment. So when we have some equipment delay case, because sometime the HR Canal reached the process on time, so we don't know the people already left. At the moment, you know our team, the risk is we cannot directly contact with the lever, because it's not a part of the business at the moment.. And after that, they will go through all the processs like the fantest team need to check with. Par and we will try to check in the asset if we receive the the asset, like the laptop or phone, and also we will try to wipe the laptop and stock, and I will try to update the case in the BPM system to light the whole process finished. Great. Thank you. any additional questions on your end? There's nothing that I can think of. Okay. Great, yourself. So, Mike, we have had a chance to ask you quite a few questions, so now it is your turn. Are there any questions about the job or about the firm that't even answer you? Yeah, because I know the main part of the company is in the U.S., so I want to know what's's the like IT structure, ITM structure in the IP part department? Yeah, it's a good question. So even though most of us are here in the U.S., we actually have a good amount of representation for IT in the UK. So I mentioned the two gutop support positions, it would be yourself potentially in this role and one other technician, but we also have a security person, a project manager, a systems engineer, and an application support engineer based out of London. And so there's other IT people and other departments that would also be local individition to the support team that's out there. Okay, thank you, thank you so much. And my answer is I have like the shift, like, do I need to work late or something? we' way? Yeah, there's schedulist chefs, yeah, so between the two support people, one of them would work from 8 to 5, and the other would work 830 to 5. So it's just kind of alternating, and someone is always on one of those ships. There may occasionally be late work that's pretty rare, and if that does come up, we would try to give you, obviously, notice if that were were needed, let's say there's an event happening, you know, in the evening, we would try to make sure you were the other person who were well aware of that in advance so that we could find coverage with that. But that does not have a good ability to be. Sure. That's fine, because I'm quite flexible. So I want to know what's the detail. So I ask, what's other mean systems or two in the IT team like daily work? Are you facing daily, what's the case for the daily phasing? about the day day? Yeah, I mean, I mentioned a little bit of, like, onboarding offboarding. Obviously, you're familiar with that. I've seen you've handled that over 500 times. So, you know, that is there's someone always joining the firm, so that is pretty frequent and that is a weekly task pretty much. Other than that, it is kind of your normal hardware software support, whether that be any office related issues or maybe maybe specific trading applications that will be troubleshooting and assisting with. Outside of that, I feel like there's always project work. Chris team handles a lot of that project work there. Chris, what am I missing here? No, I think you kind of hit everything. That's yeah, that's pretty much the day to today. It's a lot of a lot of dealing with walk.ups, phone calls. There's definitely project work. There's always something changing,. It's IT, so IT is never static. Yeah, yeah, I know. So we're all always working on something. And there's always opportunities to, for members of the team to get involved with those projects, especially if it's something that they want to learn more about. They want to use to build their career a little bit. We're always happy to put members of that team, our team into those projects. Okay, thank you, thank you so much. Yeah, that's it. I'm no on you other questions. Thank you. is you think of anything else, please feel free to reach out to your recruiter, and they can send that question on to us. We're happy to follow up with you. And then just to give you an idea of next steps. So once we get through initial candidates in this round, we will bring back a few people to meet the greater team. So you'll meet some of our senior analysts, and other people on this support team. And once you get past that next round, the last round would be with London users themselves, so you would meet with our London head, a couple of the London office managers, a few of the administrative people, and that would be the very last round process. So just to give you an idea to come. Okay, great, great, thank you. Well, thank you so much again, take care. Have a good weekend. We appreciate you checking in with us today. Okay, thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you. Bye. Thank you.