# See if you have an artist for my and I'm here to chair today at discussion…

# 

See if you have an artist for my and I'm here to chair today at discussion, I'd like you to put your hands together and give a random please for director Clara, producer Lucas and of course. Lee Bouche.. So before we get started, I just want to say, you to thank you to the Czech Centre and the main in Prague. Festival for a land screening of this absolutely extraordinary. We're going to be asking questions of the audience after we've had a bit of a discussion. So haven't think of a questions you might ask. So, I saw this film 2024 Camden International Fil Bestestival. What I told you earlier, I was sat on a very uncomfortably chair, and the film mesmerised me, I was able to completely lose myself in the film. And I think the thing that really. The thing for me was that this is a very film. This is a film where every element was special. The voice was special. The photography was special, and it was special store was special. And I I just want to let's just dig into. I want to know more about how this film came to be. a Clara. Please, can you just tell us about the piano of the film and how how it happened and how it evolved? great things for your boards. So the very first idea came action from C television, they asked me to record as some small television from about the rebolutionious success in the Arab photographic pistol that I met, it was, I think,, and I was so excited at all the personal and open ass and story andos and everything. So I remember I decided to like out the about her and her, I was noticed Yes. I was and approaching when I opportunity. But it's changed. I it's. Why did what happened to make you change your mind? Because I'm not boring. You know? We are on the same way. I may even moment programmes. Yes, because we talk a lot about it and it was don't like, talking and things and I don't doing something, you people pretending that means to photos about something, so it might have also story. I should be trying to shooting, but I just try to come. You lost in the. You lost the challenger. It was impossible to charge it.. Clara saved this situation. Yeah, because for me from the beginning, it was a crucial, life, not images for something more because I think in her argu isreading about her and that was so I. But I think at the beginning, Kara was the only one who really believed that, and who really knew that the whole film really composed only from the photos. I didn't believe it. I thought that there will be actual some moving images, some actual film material or video or something like that. And also about co-producers asked me, you know, every time, there will be, you know, there will be an actual moving images, right? So how did this How did this approach evolve? I don't know, maybe I made some short document during during my study, so I work somehow, you know, your full a day in this in, so I was thinking about how it Yeah, how did translate into contemporary language and this was one of the options. And then I have to say, then also COVID pandemics have does, actually. Paradoxically. let's put it way. We wanted to shoot, rock it down, happens, and nothing was possible. We didn't want to put Roche in danger, so we were thinking, okay, what can we do now? And I think it was Colaro's idea or L's idea, I don't know anymore. Lushe started scanning the pictures from the first Japanese visit. You remember those colour images? And out of those images, Kara and the editor Sasha Kashv, they created eight minuteserpt, like a proof of concept, and it was over. Still images, some design, and clara's home voice, not,ana's voiceover, and it was a test. And those big minutes, they are basically in the film. You just saw them. And it worked. That was like.. Yeah, that was true for me, it was baching, Thank you. everything you to go. I remember Maya said, like the pure editing is basically editing the hostile images, like still images editing is, it's, you know, the purest form of what an editor can do. And that was encouraging. Thank you for that. Yes, is edit consultant Maya Daisy Hawke, you He's a genius. So I want to know a bit more about this idea. I read that there's 3,600 cuts in the film. Is this is true? And I also saw a very overworked power socket on your Instagram, which was buzzing away. Like, how long did this edit take place? Tell us about the process. You know, I'm in an edit at the moment and it's the best of times, the worst of times is it's hard work. You find the vill, it's spent two years in and we had some thousand photos in our computer, which, so and she's there is I whole year I might script.. it was like, yeah, nothing else. So we and also music, and sound to. And music to bring in nowadays and also to catch some with was yeah, would you be able to have a little more. very, very, very important processash is very patient. He had some previous experiences with animation movies, so he knew that his understands this type of work where he don't work image after another. So then at the end, like movement emerges. It was like important that he was patient enough to understand this type of work. imagine if you are if there are some little makers around you, when you edit something and then you have music to it, or you can you probably know it from Instagram when you make like stories since the stories. When you put music to the video, it changes somehow, you know, like the perception is different. So it was like really important that in the editing room, they also work with music, with all the sound players, because every sound changed a little bit. The perception roof of the rhyb. So the whole package, image and sound, was created in the editing room, by Clara and Sasha. S some don't think so it helped a lot. So, I collect photography, particularly Tus Schmer photographs, who was some of who may know is a northeast working class photographer. He was photographing England in the 1980s and she offered an insight into the world visiting. And when I watched the film and I was looking at you I wish I was thinking about this, how this work that could be such a liberating to make is that dangerous cold, felt, just this tension of it and I'm interested in how do you feel seeing your work? What did it change in your work to see it in the film? I not the place myself. Okay, I. I have seen this order to the pieces I haven't pieces to beicted with this young save complicated living so complicated life, but photography I have to go to see a big part of my life in the session. short and short. anyway, and. And this was about beforenection was the work was the originalives. She was working for subsequ was, she to style, she she wants to be. Okay, she wants she just I don't. I is a story because Kara wants it certainly images from the end of 70 is the beginning of ' 80s, and she gave a call to the Busha. Please could you find them for me me in two hour sequels and? You know, I don't know where they are. Here's the key from my studio. Go here, go there and find them your salad. That's basically what established percent trust. I have. I was so happy for them because I I put whatever you want from that.. I can see that you have a camera around your neck, today, and what role does be acting as a photographer still playing? It's very important than by it comes. long enough. not here. It's so really very important 14aces people's. But I have to say that the diaries, we haven't talked about them that much. I think there is like, there is a certain quality in the writing, howush expresses how she uses words. There are also some short stories in Libushche's archive. The are, like, really interesting and really good, I would say, because Ihe is a good storyteller, and you always talk about collecting experiences in life, so that's in after some years, you would have enough interesting situations and experiences that you can transport into literature, maybe.. My desire was a writer. And I used, I read something to posters so so much this much experience, this trend. It goes close my family life, doesn't. I do myself my. But the connection is that the photography is like a different medium where you collect its those moments, those FMRO, you know, atmospheres and feelings, it's just a different kind of medium, but it's still better. that you are going to like everyday, I don't know, when experiences and poetry and everyday life. Theprises and a documentary film is an active writing in itself. It's just a different translation. You know, this is your first film. Is this from the first feature film? No. So because we are kind film together with the directors So this is like Cla Solo. I mean, it's not going to valid late. You know, the entry for thekers. I think she's better with me., you if this is as someone who's finding finding their approach as a filmmaker. what were you influenced by things other than film? What other things sort of creatively influenced you on this journey making this work? I think, you know, I laugh pretty smart girl, D, for example, and also, yeah, this film,ations in, so on is in Photop and yeah.ara studied visual arts before starting her studies at the film school. Yeah, it's to photographer also, but Both out on the way, well, I mean And she was she was actually making sculptures and things like that, and I think that's there is oveucated. She also knows how to valid. She's a valer. That's crazy. You don't want to tell people that since publicly, because they will get you welding. and I' also. Yeah, I have many professions. Like this was so many. I died with all my professions together in this film, so like, yeah, it's a push became an for this out course. Because I was looking long time of female programme. don't about these topicics like what I think they spoken about it was their love to you for station Yes, you became your whose learned very hard and I recognise it and it for me was it was where it was it was and now it's a memor ending exhibition. Who has it? So I have more questions, but if you have a question in the audience, please raise your hand and we bring the to you. I's more interested in that you know, musicality from your feeling perspective. in terms of the delicate spaces on the phone, for example, I didn' see the film today, so it towards us before, portion was replace. specialty, one spaces, the science spaces, using places. And if I got back of all of that politics that's also over all times and I think he negotiate today. He said to me, you so, and dramatic waste, which is also a reasonable. Yeah, I think it started like a being found with Alendria, on YouTube, one song which put by an at the club and we found out that the it's a summeramic sonic and made by liveror. So, and it's a good integporary musician and our brand, so I asked you to join us do I go soundtrack and we invited two more sound like two musician because the really wanted to to have it more dynamic and also like. I think they also brought their like not only creativity, but their own point of view on the written on the musicality, as you call it, have Oliver Tor, one of the music composers, is like really talented in thinking about dramatic construction of not only some design, but also like music. And then I I would say it was more like intuitive process, with music something to reference, so we have to to wake up it. But again, so. But this music again, again and again, yeah, that was the borrow. But this musicality, you are talking about, I think it comes also from the editor, from Alexand Kashhev. He previously, he worked also for radio, like for he produced like only audio narrives, not only documentary, but also like fiction. And he always worked with concrete sounds by himself, He's like very int talented sound designer, who can combine dramatic storytelling with with using sour and painting this space and, yeah, so I think it was his obviously so together with Kara, because they were together in the editing room, and they discussed everything. And there there were different phases of this. One of one of the edits lasted follow three hours, and three always watched it and discussed it together. And didn't there was this basic chronology in the narration that gave us the main structure, and I remember you always discussed, okay, this is too fast, you need to slow down a little bit and create like this space for breathing. So that's the audience does me feel too over and around. It also, it depends on the on the pace of deity of the photos. Sometimes it's like rapid voltage really fast, and sometimes there is only one photo for several seconds. And this this is the form that coll described. Okay, we have to personal entered the glasses. Just thank you. First of all, I would love to be and I would like to go with.. Can you a bit to G? So, yeah, it was complex and I felt like it was really a pure documentary, where it tried really achieved something, that everything was achieved, that the same time. and own I really big compliments to you for your courage, coming out and know everything you have, and I think, and I look at you, and I think you never grow rules. It's like, I see the young person. I see you as so young because you too much in front of you and how did you manage to store these negatives, you know? Because it looks like, because I have my perms, I go all the time in Prag and I have my franchise there, many many boxes of number books, and they were talking around I could kept it all the time when I was outside was in Latia and it was safe and. So you came with the boxes from that Japan or? I took the almost around it was me to Japan and also. I have more on than you when I am going to Berlin, but to the bas is. I don't always be for you.. But is this one place. And people have a problem to organise their pictures, and despite it, it looks like your life looks like a mess at the, you know, I think as well. I think you're very organised and. It's organised. I'm not sure.m so better. It's used to be, but Clara helped to organise it. Yeah, but also our first from. I don't one situation, it travels to the university businesses, when go, university playing suddenly started to. They are waiting for you. How is it possible you? You have with your childrenrove, you have to come back to start again. So I bought, and I try I took long from from bank, for example, mental games spend subsecu. So the night impress I started. Happy Years. So the thing that experiment, finally. It was the beginning of the I had once 2019 and 2014., I don' Okay, let's. put some wearing a red at the top in this room.. Um, I also wanted to go. I wanted to. I one of the things I really like about is the the camera of the time it shows how our lives are made up with how other people kind of that does and we are the most a pouch work the people around us. And I wondered what the people, the other known perception, this film rules and mother, you consulted them before you began or I don't know if anyone was sort of because there are some quite intimate photos, for example. We didn't know where the story will take us and how which characters will play any important an important role in the whole story. So once the film was nearly finished, I started contacting um all the important people hearing from the images and um the characters that affect the storytelling somehow. So there is francy shape, the first husband. He's still friends with L and at that time when the film was being made, he was cleaning the house where the bushel lives, he was like a cleaner there. So we were in touch and he was completely okay and fine with the process. Then there is Magadata obviously current time parker get married soon.. So there are those core characters. We were in touch. And then, for example, the German husband, that was a big question mark for me But with help of Libushe, I succeeded to find him, I contacted him, I explained him the situation, I also sent him the scenes with him and then I was a little bit scared, I was a bit and so I gave him a call and he was like, I will say in German. He told me, he have a kind of which means I have noles and he was completely, you know, enthusiastic about the whole project. And we were lucky. All the people you see them and who are alive, they are great appearing in this project, you come to your, in Chattanese guy, we are in contact with the family. And then they have people who died different questions. we were, I like my objective, my mission was to be as transparent as possible, so everybody knew about it. Yeah, I' so scared. I. But then the also invited the relighes and here. I will not see my husband anymore, but I at least I can go to Germany, something like that.. There would be some big for coming somewhere and my old man having. I'm This was hoger. Yeah.. Because he tells me I have knownles, so I get this idea, okay, it's invite him because he lives in Germany, I's invite him for the work every year to Berlin. And I didn't tell B. It was a surprise for her. So he was a special guest in the audience and right.. So he was. He's a nice person.. Yeah, one of the reasons my eye was scared was that I found that his company makes like leather pants for mostly German rock singers and rock stars, like scorpions. And he makes this letter, you know, like stuff. And I was I was really scared because I told I was thinking it, okay, this guy, he knows everybody literally in Germany. And now I will show him this, for example, this scene from the wedding. And yeah, but at the end it was like really fine, and he told me, okay this was one of the best weddings I had in my life. because I met a pretty young girl from Slovakia, and I spent my first night with her with. Sounds like we have many wonderful. We have this person here with the glasses in theeroni. Yeah. I think we've got this time for this question and then maybe one more.. Yeah. Go down. Quest for the Lia is the camera is one of your closest collaborators over. So maybe you can talk briefly about youration. I am absolutelyical time. I have all theniques and for me, the only for recognised all the things about. how to the just toys,as, close numbers to this, two of them. So it's simulated movements. There were forced to help with criminals. Okay, thank you. Okay. ask question. Let's go under this room. Uh, sorry, just. Thank you., I want to say very beautiful and I wonder this I remember you, the Oscar trip was crazy and basically one of how crazy it was basically to say that one, this form is selected as the entry to his coodes like one the first impression, first reaction and to say this kind of like personal work on a logo audience and what's their reaction with the reaction in over the. I don't. Well, I don't know. would you know, like, who would tell your friends that this is like an Oscar material. So. I didn't believe it from the beginning. We just did a film that we liked to see in a cinema, and we believe that this this form is the best form of film that can be made out of Luc's archive. And we never thought about like several words with these the Muskers. But then it happened that the third was selected for Berling, and after Berlin, it was screened at more than 100 festivals around the globe. And the Cze film and television Academy is younger and younger every year, and they somehow decided that this film and this international impact can represent Czech City now the best way possible this year. And I was like, really surprised by this choice. because, as I said, I didn't believe this is like Oscarfield. But we are. Isn't this the first time a documentary we've chosen? Yes, that's true. Chamber Republic. Before it was like fiction cinema always, so that's also another reason why I didn't believe it. It can happen. happens. So we now we are trying to use this opportunity. We got some money for the campaign, but still, you know, it's like an underdog movie among all the big or bigger and stronger films that are really competing for the Oscars, you can, you know, see like Netflix, and video movies or national geographic movies. But they are really pushing hard. We don't have this strength, but we have like an original film that's our selling point. And when we were in Los Angeles, people after they watched the film, they came to us and they told us I've never seen in such a film, Never in my life. And it is also entertaining. That's like really something for you. And that's something we need. Actually, we need it from you. Please tell your friends, tell your families, this film exists and that it's fun to work. And you means to say to she has an Instagram account. At the beginning when we started making this film, she had like around 3,000 followers. Now it's 13,000. And she's always so happy's. She's always so happy when she when she has new followers. So if you like the film, please follow her. It's the guy.. Theb, you know, write written on the screen behind us. I mean, I would encourage people to take a photograph and post it to your socials. T tack, tack, tack? And then, the other thing, I want to mention, it's always hard to invite people to come in and see our film because, you know, it's a documentary black and white images, still images, 80s, 70s, 80s, something like historical. But once you see it, I'm sure you will love it. And I hope it happens to you tonight or today. And that's also like one of the positive things we learned in the United States, in New York, that people, they didn't know what they expected and after they seen it, it was like rough. So I spread the lot, help us to spread the love, please. We need to like, the academy members to feel your love. because we don't have advertisements, we don't have bellboards, in Los Angeles. We just have this love vibes. We sold down. Do you know any New York, so That's for work. It was one week, yes. We need another week. note, I want to say, does anything else you to say? Iara and just, thank you to. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. in the night.