# When we were planning the central section of this film about mother…

# 


When we were planning the central section of this film about mother and child, we decided to use the voice of the Sphinx as an emergary narrator. Because the Sphinx represents not the voice of truth, not an answering voice, but its opposite. Of questioning voice, a voice asking a riddle. Theedipusm associates, the voice of the sphinx with the motherhood as mystery, and with resistance to patriarchy. In some ways, the sphinx is the forgotten character in the story of Utipus. Everybody knows that Eddipus killed his father and lo his mother. But the part played by the sphinx is often overlooked. Edipus set off for bees, turning away from Corinth where he'd been brought up by foster parents. The sphx sat perched from a cliff or pillar outside the city gates. She asked every man who went past the riddle if they couldn't answer, she devoured them. Then she stopped Odipus when he went past, and when he answered her correctly, she threw herself down from the pillar and killed herself. The mirth of the sphinx took on new life after Napoleon's campaigns in Egypt, when the great Sphinx at Giza was disclosed once again to Western Ireland. The Egyptian Sphinx is male, but on its blank face resonant with mystery and with death, the spectator could project the image of the Greek face. Once again, the Sphinx could enter popular mythology, as in the image of male fears and male fantasies. The cannibalistic mother, part best your part angenic, indecipherable. Odipus is different from other be herrs in that he defeated the monster, not by his strength or by bravery. but simply by intelligence. His answer to the riddle, Edithus restored the generations to their proper order. By doing so, he fell into a further trap in his own life, he disordered them once more by marrying his own mother. It's almost as if Eddus stands for the conscious mind and the sphinx for the unconscious. Theuses and disorders, logical categories, and the monster is a hyrid of pals, animals, and fur. Reading between the land, the this confirms within's sense of excursion its abression, the sphinx is outside the city gates. She challenges the culture of the city with its order of kinship and its order of knowledge, a culture and a political system, which a sign women are subordinate place. To the patriarchy of the Sphinx as woman is a thirt and a woodle, but women within patriarchy are faced with a never ending series of threats and riddles. Dilemmas which are hard for women to solve because the culture within which they must think is not that. We live in a society ruled by the Father, in which the place of the mother is suppressed. Motherhood and how to live it or not to live it lies at the roots of the dilemma. And meanwhile, the spinx can only speak with a voice apart, a voice of. Time to get ready. Time to come in. Things to forget, things to lose. Meal time, Story time. Desantry. Peremptry. Keep it going. Keep it working. Reading our talk. Re. Thanks to cook. Keeping in the background. Fish starts domestically. disheartened, burned, keepred calm. Keeping dream, fitting like aitar. No. Things to mend. He's in touch with reality. Disgr, narcissistic love. Idolise, tranquillise. use encamped. It was in control, shaking likely. Release. Things to say. No time to make amends, no time for tea. Time to worry, no time to hope. Things know. Things past. Mealtime. Story time. Keeping going. Keep and looking. Reading like a book. Things to forget, Things to lose. No time lost. Story time. Dressed, strange. Nesting is a nest.. Rusty. Tikki. Tik. Be close. Be classed and fed. Be close. Nasty, Aquiesce. Ny. Mystery, dispossessed, in Prince. casting, M cross, make g. Morose, subject to always, object to exist. Nesty, from the nest. Blood. fruit, from the breast, Caressed. hurting. Bleeding. Insolvious. It was as obvious as it. Brooding. It was plain. Be close. It was as plain, it was pain. Make love, make green, man's. Ms, and others. Mysteries. Nesting. Even me, I have lied to. I used to say, but I did mind very much. Now I didn't too very much. I might it more than I could ever dared. I could all, mind the clocks, mine fire, Mine to the child. And never minded all. I minded the be. It was needed to have minded, I used to say, but was it needed to have minded more than very much? More than I could ever have dared. Transformed, I would confide. I could have cried, I could have died. Transformed to cold from warms. The wves, it pacified and purified. The warmth was far within, hidden within. The wth was deep and far within. The cone, in labour, in hiding, in the storm, sheltered, nurtured, the wounds. It was inside, it was in hiding. The warmth was far within, hidden within. The wolf's was in the centre, in the carm. The cold. From Denise, beneath, beneath the coat. Marin, covering. the wings, the p conceded nothing. Whoever frozen, pleaded, it conceded nothing. The warmth concerned. The wound was needed. Hed. Transformed, preoccupied. I could have cried. It never died. In the p, from warm to cold. Frozen, Controlled, preoccupied. I got my's.. It's.. restaurant walking there. Me! I........ I go back to me!.. What is that? You can. Stop. You want to get into the shop. All right, then. What's she doing to start me? What? I' you later. I collect you. Bye. Hey.. Bye, don't worry. OK 1 o'clock. OK. Right. What do your hands off? I don't stay along?. dance. I sweet go now to directions by. Exception two. I still..... You just like to talk. Oh. seven years a month... Eight days. Max, good. Is I all right?? That's really. I should'd be on with me once I can't. that's why I'm not. I don't that I went to be able to live. No, stop that, really. It's just. I can't talk about you. I'll tell you when I come down. We'll we stop I' my school. OK. Five.. I'm sorry I that you.. I think you. sorry. That's. What is that? What number is they today? Former. sympathy. I'm very sorry. F, fuck up. Dension two level two is engaged. from your old. I'm. You do that come to around.. You....... let's say people,000 people very. Please. number. No, you must be your. Sensction two is there.. seven years ago. You. What do you? Oh, you don't have to take IME to the smooth, smooth Zealand, and she couldn'tc go right across the and London when the child min got afraid about, and she helped her out our university landing going right down on the way road and because we twice. It's shoes at well. We'll leave each other nursery year. The company to one. What are they family and made my life a bit easier if they did.. I mean, I don't really like with in my know where I. I think we work being a bit in the house. Yeah. Well,. Yeah, I know. Yes. Well, it's a job, isn't how many numbers there are here. They walk at the young children. They've walk up their rooms about their room. I know I have. I hate being, mine. I can't keep my mind on my work. You are't worrying, Charlie. What's not bad. Have you going to take your child to the nursing before we get to work? Now when you're in the flat when you get here?, what about it's about, you worry about a kid? Yeah, she doesn't like to leave. come in, leaving some. Yeah, been a little she's talking about also.. Can we go to the n here. We've got personal manager, given some to do? Oh, probably had't take a w. Oh, what? I' what they.. I mean, so Wow, so it how little I Yeah. important thing to do is to find out when kidsulge. And the only kids as well, yeah, they kids in the, so if they about it with the man they' He should be here by now. A little boy with fair hair. I think he's only coming across the situation. What were you asking about your little girl? Oh, well, at the moment, she's in a community nursery where Maxine works. But I was wondering whether it won't be better to have a nursery at work. At the year's store about that. Not much, really. 










You're lucky to get any sort of daycare, let alone get in one that's switches there. Hello? Give us to your mother. Thanks for waiting.. Bye. I. Localges are coming back first education anywhere. Yes, that's right. It may stimulate the women to demand more for themselves, though. Do these unions ever done anything at all about? They haven't done very much. The TUC's in favour of pre state nursery care for any parent who wants it. But we're a long way from that. I was wondering whether there are some nurseries in the texti industry, and the unions do negotiate about childcare, but that's that really depends on's labour. Unless there's organised action around it, the Union wouldn't have any reason to take it up. It's like most things. We have to do something if you want, you get to take well. How can you make you can see the connection between wages and providing daycare? Well, Trans unionism isn't just a question of wages, couples. It's about work conditions too. It has to be.. In that case, might the unions get involved in runningning nurseries. They might. All sorts of questions come up with workplace nurseries. Should the mothers be allowed to visit during the day? Should the quest stay open to let women shop before they collect their children? Some unions won't employ us to pay the company nursaries, but help the nurses run by unions and parents together. Okay. Questions of words seem to form name to me, each raising the next until they led the argument back to its original point of departure. Should women demand special working conditions for long? Can a childcare campaign and talk anything fundental to women suppression? Should women strong, be concentrated on economic issues? Is doically label productive. Is the division of things entered the p? Is exploitation outside the home better nression in it? Should we be organise themselves separately for men? Could there be a social human in which women do not play the lead world? How does women struggle late to class strong? 




Is Patrick the main enemy in the winning? Does the impression of women work on the unconscious, as well as conscious? What would the polies of unconscious bond? How necessary is being a mother to me. in reality of imaginination. Society obstate vigberation. Is the family needed to maintain sexual difference? What are the charm might there be? Are campaigns about ching, are priv wing now? I do not to wish once, resolving in her life without teaching any clear completion. They need to us out into into society and back into her own men. F heart seem to be locked together. She felt a g of slay, but no certainty of success. I'm having a nice time.. I No...... Love you. No. help your names.. You mind. I just look at this film, one. Okay. Okay.. Hey. What are you use that what someone to shoot?. Should be a mirror light. It is, Kate. Now.. It's not a literary thing. How does it work? magic. But seriously. penitating. It acts as a special kind of filter. What is kept in fronted through if people are rightly warm.. I think come on my food at home. I don't the way the camel's much bigger than that food. I're in the desert she's out to. These is shap, lumpiest, baggy, and low long chap old skin. Okay, I think I'm ready. Uh, yeah. Sh down. Oh, just thought sound to say you. I decided I was so loud. Okay. That's what you want. What are marketing coats in about time to sell with you? That's a good time for me to sell. I decided I want to be rid of. You don't get much money for anyone else, you know. I think sold a mortgage. Well, I don't think I want anybody else. I'm going to be staying on that scene. And you't be able to see.. She didn't mean long to turn down. You mean you don't her?,'t. Who's that? To go.. It's about the trial, and her son is the mother. There's film, puts some videotape as well. I'll put the night out. How weap? The document are based on recordedations between mother and child. That is myself and my son. That the crucial moment of inventry into nursery school. The conversations took place at leaked the interval between September the 7th and November 26th, 1975. They came to a natural end with his adjustment to school. They're also occurred at this moment a kind of spitting of the dietic mother child unit, which is evident in my references in the diary, to the b. in my son's used to come down in significantly, I, in his conversation, and of him five diagrams. For example, concentrate markings and circle, in his drawing. The marking process is regulated by the nursery routine, so they're almost daily finished wood. are prevented by the children to their mothers. Consequently, these markings become the logical terrain on which to map out the signification of the mal discourse. September 27th. I was shocked to find the he was crying when I picked him up from the nursery. I didn't think about coming early, when he saw the others leave. Now he's very suspicious when I take him. and I can't forgive myself for that because I should have known. Although I thought I was so convinced that he was different, that if he was very sociable, the second day he actually screamed when I left, that the teachers made me. I was shocked because Ray wasn't upset about Dult, although I couldn't take him again that week I had Sally taken the first three days in R the rest of the week. I suppose it's kind of a lack of boundary definition. It's out of the 11th and was distressed all this week by his apparent anxiety over going back to the nursery. And I felt like guilty about being away teaching every day until Wednesday. We had tenantrums, which out, Thursday and Thursday that I saw him, and it botherhered me as well. World 34, take one October the 24th. I was amazed that he actually said, I like school this week. At least that sorted out, but why doesn't he get over this time?" He had to go to the doctor again this week. It was a very unsatisfactory check up. It took about one minute. It just makes me feel more responsible for him when other people don't show concern for him. But I guess I'm just as bad. I forgot to give him his medicine. Weaning from the diet, for both the mother and the child, the crucial moment that is weaning is constituted by the intervention of the third term, that is, the father. Thus consolidating the ful child and undermining the imaginary diet, which determines the interubivity of the greed of the instance. This intervention situates the imaginary third term of the primorial triangle, that is the child's pace, and the paternally margo of the mirror face within the dominance of this symbolic structure through the Word of the Father, that is the Mother's words referring to the authority of the Father to which the real Father may or may not conform. What does it mean? I can't understand most of it. They called.. w words. seem to be something to true. What about this? What is this mean? They make a room or that into which p which other patterns fit, or a place underf car by circumstance fit. I must selfied for the dark. I think it is. She thought she' be getting in. It's the old pure he's still going. In the valley of the night, it matches, I'ume remember very clearly from my childhood. It's a above. Oh, And how her mother loved this her. Her mother just went home. She her I remember all sister. I' s she' to the. I'm sitting something I walked into my mother give it to me. It people battered out. sly huge demonstration. There's a ring of people standing, looking at you. You don't know who's standing. It's going find. Talk about this. What is this? I was I first, sitting on a stool down to the mast, eating a pears, the Jamaica, very carefully to slices. It's a large boat, some kind of naval vessel, because it had large guns and sailors wearing helmets and blues. They must have been soldiers, how rich. I was afraid of the soldiers? It seemed to me they were finding full. I think it was the most they wanted to wait at them. So with Jack like, looked at myself and looking box. I be instead myself, I saw my father carrying. He said he'd come from the. It was going to be so kind of festival that she. She held my straps. And my father people be. the Soers and dreams on the hel, in. My father wanted me to begin turning the book, but I said, I can't. I didn't mean. He said that I must. I wouldn't say everything he invested in some kind of disease. all the men in the walk out to show part symptoms and grow gills, and their interests of m they frighten, they tell the coach, and them not she cut. The father began to coax him to begin cur. I was not an. And I noticed that he standing behind my fore, another man, he seemed to be l. Perhaps some kind of priest. He asked me whether I was a oyster once. Everybody was excited by this question, which they seemed to think was very shd, and Iging about they wanted to. I ran to our father, sees the sort which he had been called in his hand. His own jewels, can a ride on. began to show all the men began to their teeth by carrying off feeding the rock. And so there were hundreds of tiny car sees. Where the dr, I saw that the lane bands were feather heress of an Indian ch. Some realised that all this time, I had been going in b the to it off through the car we seat to the lane now G on the chief. became all distorted, disappeared. Only my father left. felt very perplexed, Then he said, "You must receive communion at Easter. I realised that it was Ash Wednesday. Therefore, that I must be my member, though I knew she was dead. I had seen him, and in a very loud voice, I ordered that all my forest propition should be sold by all men. All my women threw away their coats and shouted,Br, lock down. They unstrapped the machine. They knocked the helmets of the military couch on soldiers. I don't remember much more, except I was dancing in the deck of the ships. in front of a sheet of canvas and said. course, dance. I looked at sea, could that seemed to be made us so. What does that mean,? I don't know, that mean. That's why I wrote it. I hope I don't understand. This as pot She remembered reading somewhere, a passage from a book which she could no longer trades, words which had struck her at the time and which she now tried to reconstruct. Inscribed on the name of the box were the words, "Anatomy is no longer destiny." And inside, when she opened it, she found the fickle of the Greek sphinx with full breasts and feathery wings. She lifted it up out of the box to look at it more closely. As she did so, it seemed to her that it slips moved and it spoke a few phrases in a language which she could not understand, except for three words which were repeated several times. Capital, delay, and body. She replaced it in the box and closed the light. She could feel her heart beat. The rhym of the sentences was not quite right, and she felt sure there was some particular she had forgotten. She tried to imagine the scene the right in might have. But the box had been padded with cushioning. a quilted material, fones it, black or red, button drawing voises. What would the pattern of the embroid would be? She imagined an intricate web of curved forms, intertwined knots, like the tendrils and fonds in the marsh web, according to back of them, the first matriarchyodes. or the curls of pubic hair from which according to fraud, women won the first day. What kind of material was the sinks carved for? Soft like white so hard, like agate? Ancients like amber, or more modern, like oalite. With the feathers ring, they' pulling under her heat will touch her overlapping waves. Whatever it was that she had forgotten. It was surely something central, more waiting, not some detailed designed byufacture. Could she known that name of the land, could she s spoke? The more she tried to remember, the more she count her mind wandering, is laying the thread of al construction, and return to images from her own childhood. She remembered how when she'd been very, her mother had lifted her up to carry on her hip and how she'd hovered round her cot while she had been asleep. She remembered her feet and triumph as her father left the house, and the sudden presentiment of separation which followed. There was the time when she'd opened a drawer with the little key and found a piece of coral and a badge which had gone darkish green. And she remembered one morning coming into her mother's room and finding her mother's friend sleeping next to her mother. And she suddenly understood something, she realised her mother had tried to explain, and she felt a surge of panic, as though she'd been left behind and lost. She thought her mother would be angry, but she smiled. And when she got out of bed, she noticed the shapes of the arch of her foot and her heel and the back of her car. She's been drawing acrobats to get through with the body and display skilled bags. She saw them no longer as pioneers of the ideal, but as bodies at work, expending their labour power upon its own material. She was fascinated by the gam between the feeling of bodily exertion and the task of drawing and writing, gestures which consumed themselves in their own product, giving a full sense of effortlessness, which no acrobat could hope to approach.lay and body. She replaced it in the box and closed the lead. She could feel her heart beat. She felt giddy with success, as though after labouring daily to prevent a relapse into her pristine humanity, she had finally got what she wanted. She shuddered. Suddenly, she heard a voice, very quiet, coming from the box. The voice of thehinx grined louder till she could hear it clearly, complellingly, and she knew that it had never, ever been entirely scient. and that she had heard it before, all her life, since she firststood that she was a girl. The voice was so many, yet so faint and easy to forget. She smiled, and in her mind, she flung herself through the air. hogistic. only tries to decipher the hierogics to get behind the secret. To the patriarch, the Sphinx, this woman, good or am. But to women, we live under patriarchy. To patriarchy, as stinx as war is a riddle and that. But women within patriarchy are faced by a never ended series of thaps and riddles. D levels would do hard for women to solve because of the culture within which they must think, not there, We live in a society roared by the f in which the pace of the mother is theressed. Motherhood and how do you live it, or not to live it, there in the roots of dynamo, and meanwhile, the voice of the Spinx is the voice apart, the voice is of. I was looking at an eye and picked the glass. It was an eye that comfort in a sea of glass. It was only occid. A herald ti. It was nice in the night, I felt the past. Each drop was red. Bloodless thicker silk, darkly. blood she silk silk. Bain. squ, sp. and strike, replying. Spilt.. The wind blw all it in the rain. It's red, bl. sil an excellent past. It is an island ofountment which fade is the earth.