# 七层纱的电影中 约翰的角色是通过女性诱惑 约翰最开始的角色 导致你发生丑闻而导致另一个角色拿到了该角色的，电影中女主角小时候被父亲…

# 

七层纱的电影中 约翰的角色是通过女性诱惑 约翰最开始的角色 导致你发生丑闻而导致另一个角色拿到了该角色的，电影中女主角小时候被父亲猥亵过，甚至父亲把拍摄的这部分的dv做成了喜剧相关的内容呈现出来导致了女主的创伤，女主在影片中责怪莎乐美的母亲的演员 其实是在责怪自己的母亲 

请直接翻译以下内容 And, uh, tonight a film, again, about the most famous scripties, certainly in the Bible. Um, could we just go back to your history with Strauss's Opera Salome, because you actually first directed it, um, shortly after, you directed it between Exotica and The Sweet Hereafter, so you go, this is going back nearly 30 years. Yes. Um, so the artistic director of the Cayman Opera Company, Richard Branswell, saw Exotica and, uh, proposed to me the idea of directing Salome. And, uh, it was a wonderful invitation because I immediately saw, in a while to play, uh, so many themes that had really stirred me. I mean, I will, uh, make reference to a production I saw in the late 80s in London. Um, and I found the program, actually. Uh, this was a production that Stephen Burkoff did in 89 at the Phoenix Theater. It came from the gate. And it was a really amazing production because he found a way of stylizing, uh, Wilde's overwrought, uh, language and, and with these very slow gestures. And it was mesmerizing. And, uh, a tremendous night in theater. And it sort of left an impression on me. But then to hear what Rietveld Strauss did with music, um, because I wasn't familiar with the opera. I, I'm, I'm embarrassed to say it. I, um, uh, but I, I was just ignited by it. And I saw so many possibilities because, yes, Exotica and Sweet Rapture are very discreet films in some ways in terms of what they're dealing with. And this was just full on. It was very, um, especially in the Dance of the Seven Veils. I immediately, because I looked at some productions and the idea of having a soprano dance for eight minutes, um, was a bit, um, scary. Because, I mean, I, I knew the soprano we had for that 96 production. She wasn't a dancer. And so I thought, well, what do you do for eight minutes? And then I, I had this idea of just using the music as a flashback. Which I think now has become, I, I, I've heard of other productions that, that do that. But, but this, I think, might have been the first time where it was devoted to this, this glimpse into Salome's background. And I went quite far with that. I mean, given the extremity of the, what happens at the end of the opera, I thought we could have a, a very violent, um, scene developed from that. That would explain something of what, what would have led her to that act. Um, but I, I, I, I could see the audience reaction. I mean, people were, uh, shocked and there were no trigger warnings at the time. So people were, were rushing out. And you're seeing glimpses of that, of that, uh, because the production we just did two years ago actually was quite toned down. But you're seeing images of that first production in the film, uh, with the, with the gang rape. And so, so I, I've just, yes, I have a history. It's been, it's been a hit show. I mean, it's been produced many, many times. And in fact, uh, one of my dreams of this film was that somehow we could import the, the popularity of, of that, of that production, the stage production, uh, into, into this other form. So I'm, I'm not sure if that succeeded, but, but that was, that was, that was part of the excitement of this. And, and to bring some of the issues into the current day. Because, uh, certainly I, I wouldn't stage it now the way I staged it in 1995, um, or 96. It just wouldn't, um, uh, it would be problematic, I would think. So I was also dealing with that. The fact that I knew that it came off a company wanted to remount it two years ago, exactly. And, well, what does that mean? I mean, can we, um, I wouldn't, you know, there are a host of questions that I, that I hoped I could somehow address by this strange adaptation, if you will. Um, one of the interesting things about this film, I mean, I don't know nearly anything about the opera world. And I don't know how many of you know that world. But I was really interested by the idea of the remount. The idea that an opera can be directed by one person, staged by them, then restaged, possibly in the same form, by someone else. And the whole drama of this film seems to, uh, revolve around this question of who actually owns the production. Janine comes in and she says, well, I want to change some things. And the opera company say, no, no, you can't possibly. Who, I mean, this must be really interesting for someone who has been through various versions of their own opera productions and, um, yeah, and dealt with different opera companies. Well, I mean, look, operas are very expensive to put on. And so if an opera is successful, if a production is successful, the remount is a way of amortizing that cost. So, um, I've been fortunate that the operas I've done, the, uh, the, the Wagner, uh, here at the Cane Opera Company, the, the Mozart, um, they've all been remounted because they were quite expensive. And so the remount allows the opera company, which, which owns the production, um, to, to actually then recoup some of those costs. But I will say, because I'm about to do a remount, uh, in Montreal, you have a very, you don't have the same rehearsal time. It's, it has to be put on its feet very quickly because there's not much room for changes because, uh, it's, it's, that's not what the expectation is. And if there are changes, um, well, they have to be, I mean, they have to be efficient. I mean, you can't change the sets, you can't change the costumes, you can't, uh, you couldn't, you don't have a lot of time to change the lighting, you don't have a lot of time to do much. So what she's doing is, is, is quite preposterous, but it's really coming from a very strange, uh, desire she has to kind of get things right. And, and, and yes, the opera company would be appalled. I mean, it's, it's the last thing they would have thought. But of course you could also ask why, which is, which is asked in the film, like, why are they even allowing this? I mean, yes, Charles had asked that she be the person to remount it, but, but really the opera company would have its own associate director and people on staff who would do that job normally. Um, I was wondering if she's actually a good opera director because she seems to kind of annoy everyone and talk a lot and people are tearing their hair out. Um, she's never, I mean, my feeling is that it's, you know, as the podcaster says, she's, I mean, she's never really found, I mean, she's done regional theater and trade shows and this is actually a huge opportunity. But it's, it's really not something that would lead to anything because it's not her signature. As she says at the end, I mean, it's, it's still Charles's production. And so whether or not this was given or offered to her as a, as a gift or a curse is really up for grabs really. Um, certainly though, it, it's something which creates a, a journey that she wasn't expecting. And that's what fascinated me dramatically that she goes down this rabbit hole. I mean, as to why she even accepted this, like, did she see it as something, uh, was there a way to get her from, uh, apart from her husband? You know, we gather they have a, you know, there are problems in that marriage or, you know, I don't, I don't think she was, she's been living with Charles. I don't think this is something she's been obsessed with on a day-to-day basis, but suddenly she's back into that world as a result of going into the production. And, and even though, you know, what, what, what I found quite unique about this character is often we see characters who are, uh, traumatized, who, who, you know, they've repressed their memories and things bubble up to the surface because of certain things that happen. In this case, she's very aware of what's happened. And, and it's, it's in, you know, her husband refers to it, the people in the opera company refer to it. There's no secret about what she's experienced and what, uh, what this production reflects. But what she doesn't anticipate is this brew of things that are going to emerge as a result of these different, um, attempts to renounce it. But also, I think, tellingly, the attempts to control her. The, the attempts of, you know, people having another agenda, which they're imposing on her. I don't think she's experienced that for a while. And, and, and suddenly she's, she's re-traumatized by that process. It's not, it's not the memories of what's happened because those are available. And, and, and, uh, and she's probably dealt with those actually quite explicitly. But it's the idea of being back in a place where, and that, and it's funny, I was listening to the introduction. It is similar to Exotica because it's, it's a place. It's, it's the club in Exotica, or it's the opera house itself that creates these changes. I think it's, isn't it Foucault who has this idea of the, uh, Hetropia, right? The Hetro, this place of, this place where things, uh, shift. And where realities begin to kind of, uh, there's an otherness that's kind of allowed. And, uh, where, um, the dynamics of the institution or, or that, or that place, uh, create other, uh, consequences. And, and I, and I found, I find that that's interesting between the, the club in, in Exotica. Which, which is, of course, the fabrication and, and the opera house here, which, which is quite real. But, but the things that are happening in the opera house are applications. And also real in this film are the singers, because you have singers effectively playing themselves, and you're also using your own production of Salome, in a sense remounting it within the film. So maybe you can explain the different parts of the conversation together. That was the scariest part. I mean, look, it was a crazy production, because we had to actually— and this is what the investors found really difficult to understand— is that we were locked into this time. It had to happen while the opera was on, while I was rehearsing the opera. We had to be in prep for the film, so that once the opera opened, we can kind of go right into the shoot, because the singers were in town at that point. The set was on stage. And many people thought, well, why can't you just kind of move that all and put it into a warehouse or put it into a studio? I said, well, no, it's impossible. It's not just a question of how exorbitantly expensive that would be, but also the singers are contracted to go off and do other operas. So they're only in Toronto for these weeks, and this is when we need to shoot the film. But then there's Amanda's schedule on top of that. She just won the Emmy for Dropout, so she was really excited about this part, but she had a very limited window, which happened miraculously to coincide with when the opera was on. So everything had to fall into place, and it was incredibly stressful. And on top of that, I knew these singers, but I didn't know how they would feel on film, whether or not they'd be able to be screen presences. And I think they equipped themselves quite well with that, but they had never acted before. They'd never been in a film before. And you could see, whenever they're singing, they are incredible as performers, but they really had no training in anything other than opera singing. So that was a bit of a risk. And Amanda Seyfried, you've worked with her before in a very different film. Very different. And I like the fact that all the way through, the film is about looking, and why do you look at me with those eyes? And of course, she has one of the most celebrated, intense gazes in the movies at the moment. How did she work her way into this film? Did she go and shadow opera directors, or how did she become Janine? Well, she shadowed me, for sure. She is a singer. She's a wonderful singer. Many people might have just seen this incredible thing that's gone viral of her singing on a dulcimer on some late-night TV show. She's got a beautiful voice. I mean, it's a shame she doesn't sing in the film. But she was in awe over the... What the singers are doing is quite athletic. And so when she was in the rehearsal room and she was seeing that, and also how I would direct a singer is very different from how I work with her. It's a very physical process as opposed to the more discreet process of film directing. So she got a glimpse of that in the time that she had. And certainly I made my rehearsals available to her by Zoom so she could watch. But she'd never been in an opera rehearsal process. But she was just... And I think that's conveyed in the film. She really did find the fact that these are not amplified voices, that this is actually being... This is coming out of the human body without any sort of electronic enhancement. And it's actually soaring over a 100-piece orchestra making a lot of noise and filling this house. I mean, that is really a phenomenon. So even though she's a singer, she's not been trained to sing that way. Yeah, so... I like the fact that an art form which is all about bodily projection through the throat is here about someone getting their head cut off. It must have been wonderfully transgressive. That's very interesting, Jonathan. I think that's one of the reasons why it is to sing the event in opera, maybe. It's exactly that. I had never thought of it. Yes, he's cut at the throat, right? So maybe there's something that's particularly resonant within an opera, seeing that climactic scene. And then, of course, in our production, seeing the blood being poured into the larynx, as you will. So maybe I hadn't thought about that. That's interesting. Okay, we've got time for some questions. So... And there is a mic floating around, but I'll repeat them as well in case you can't hear them from here. Anyone would like to start the bidding? Oh, is that...? No? Everyone's had their heads cut off tonight. No, no, there is one there. Hang on. Go ahead, please. This is a brilliant film. Thank you so much. And I'm thrilled to be here. And I just wanted to know if you would say something about the kind of repeated concept of people trying to help other people. So Charles actually wanted to help his ex-lover have an experience by assuming that she would then redirect this production that was his but then could be hers. And then the sculptor wants her ex-lover to... Sorry, her current lover to get the part of her ex-lover. I mean, there's a lot of this repetition in the narrative that is part of your film, and I wanted to know if you could speak about that. Oh, that's a wonderful observation. Thank you very much for... You're one of the few people who brought that up. I mean, yes, I do think there are many people who are creating strategies and trying to find ways to offer a gift but offer an opportunity or to give something back or to make a dream come true. But what they're not aware of are that there are other agendas. That as pure as those ideas might be, there are other agendas. So whether or not Charles is aware of the current... I mean, he must have some sense that there would be issues with his current wife inviting his former lover into the situation. But whether or not he thought nothing was the best or whether... These aren't really answered. And I do think in the case of... I think very often the forms of justice that we are expecting through a system are not necessarily dealing with what we might need. And I think this idea of using this... And she is in shock over this attack. And the moment she sees the opera company's attitude, which is not... And I must say it's drawn on something which I observed and which friends of mine have observed. We expect that the current human resources environment is going to find the right solution. And very often it's actually surprisingly resistant to what they should do. The moment she understands in that conference room that that's not being offered to her immediately, she seeks her own restorative justice. And in this case, she sees an opportunity for... And it's actually... It's a cliche which is true. If her lover did get the chance to sing that part on opening night, her career could change. And it could actually be an extraordinary gift that she's offering. But that... But her lover doesn't want it on those terms and has every right to make her own decision, right? So, thank you. It's a complex... I cannot answer that... Because it ripples through the film in a number of ways. But thank you very much for observing that. Yeah, please. I will ask you another one. Jonathan, one thing I will say, because I sent it to you, but for people there, because it's online. I was asked by Talkhouse, which is an on-site sort of thing to do an essay. So, I've written this essay, which is very easy to access, called Salome and My Seven Dales of Illusion. So, that's on Talkhouse, is the site. So, it gives some background in terms of my history with it, but also the history of Salome as this obsessive figure in the 19th century. Many artists dealt with her and why that might have been the case. Anyway, so, for those who want to go further, I would look up that essay in Talkhouse. How about that, Jonathan? You're doing well. Oh, you made me pause now. Hang on a minute. Well, you've broken my line of thought. Yeah, so as a film director, particularly a film director with the particular interests in screens and representations and the way people film themselves and each other, when you work on stage, is it hard to keep cinema out of your mind? Or do you always, when directing a play or an opera, do you always gravitate one way or another towards the filming? No, I don't. I was doing theatre before film, and I do think that the... I will say that the filmmakers that first impressed me were coming from theatre, so people like Ingmar Bergman or Fassbender. I remember seeing their films and thinking, oh, there's a theatrical sensibility to these films. And also, you know, the films like Tarkovsky and Bellator and, you know, films where there's a real strong sense of the proscenium or, you know, this idea of how something is framed. Or the films that he made of opera, an opera of Moses and Aaron. So, anyway, so, yes, I'm not thinking about that while I'm doing theatre. I've used projections, like in Salome, but for the most part, most of my opera is free of that. I've done some more experimental operas where I've used projections, Chinese opera, but they're very different forms. I mean, you are... And when you're directing actors for the theatre, you're trying to give them something that they can keep referencing because they have to do it night after night, so they have to really absorb the direction in a different way than when you're working with film actors because it's really just that moment. And, you know, there's a moment in this film I love where we see Amanda behind the screen with the dancers. It's actually one of her most beautiful moments where she's recalling this moment with her father, but that was generated on the spot. We hadn't planned that, it wasn't really... You know, we just knew that we had that camera that day, we had the dancers. And so I gave her this opportunity and I invited her and I gave her... She wasn't prepared, but she understood what was needed from her and she understood her relationship to the camera. And so it was a... We just caught that, but it wasn't... I don't even remember directing that necessarily, but she understood how all these forces were at play and we could capture lightning in a bottle, as they say. So that's really... It's a different process. Are there any operas that... Oh, actually, I'll let you ask the questions since you're in the front row. So hang on one second. Thank you so much. I really liked what you talked earlier. So what you said is that there's some level of improvisation when you are directing this film. So can you elaborate a little further what kind of improvisation you have for not only the film actors, but also the stage actors? Well, you know... When I'm directing an opera, my concern is to get it on its feet as quickly as possible, because you don't have a lot of time. So I'm really trying to block it quite quickly. So there isn't a lot of room for improvisation. But I do like these moments in film, like the scene I just described, where that could actually just be generated. But I have used improvisation a lot in my other films, but under a structure, where there's a structure, but then there's room for the actors. And look, I think any close-up is an improvisation. What the actor is able to generate and communicate, and if the camera can capture that, I mean, that's not something that you're specifically directing. You might whisper something in an actor's ear before a take, and that might make them think of something, or go to a certain place. And if you capture that, it's really wonderful. One of my favourite moments in all my films is this moment in an early film called The Adjuster, where there's an actor, Maury Chicken, and he's giving a monologue, and the camera's moving very slowly onto his face. And he'd been up all night on another shoot, and he forgot the lines. He forgot the lines of what he had to say next, but rather than call cut, I just had the camera keep moving. And you can see this moment where he's recovering the line, and it's absolutely mesmerising. But it's just because the camera's able to see this process, and it communicates this form of weird despair that he's processing. But in fact, it's him trying to remember a line, but it's really... I look at it now, and I think it's one of the finest moments that I didn't direct. It's just... I just had the wherewithal to not say cut. And it just... I often show that scene, because it's non-direction in a way. Okay. Thank you. 



I'll just ask you a couple of last questions. One, I was wondering whether there is a particular opera that you would really like to do now, or do you have to wait until a company comes along and says, we want you to do Janacek, or whatever? Well, no, funny you should mention that. I mean, because that is the one opera that I've... I did ask, I was going to do an opera version. There's a wonderful opera by Benjamin Britten called Turn of the Screw. And so there was a production for that, which I initiated with a company in New York. And we had this amazing design, and I had this great idea, but then the company went bankrupt. So that was a shock. And the other time I've actually suggested an opera was Janacek with Yennefer. And we're going to remount that in Montreal, because that's, again, an opera based on a play. And in this case, I think it might be the first opera based on a play by a woman, Gabriela Presnova, a Czech writer. And it's a wonderful piece of music and a great piece of drama. Again, a very dark, chilling story. But I... Listen, for the most part, you really wait for... You don't initiate these projects that are the result of an artistic director who comes to you. Because it is unwieldy and very expensive. And also, it's difficult when you have a film career, because you have to lock yourself into these dates, right? You can't not be there once you've signed a contract. So, you know, the one thing I was going to add about when you talk about remounts, the most famous director is Zeffirelli, who did these very expensive productions for the Met, right? And those have been remounted, like, for decades. Because they're so large. And they're still trying to recoup that budget. And they're classic productions, but they were designed to be remounted. So I think companies like the Met try and have these productions in their repertoire. And much like the COC has had this production of Salome, has the production I've done of the Ring Cycle, the Duval Curie, the Cosi Fan Tutte. Those are part of... So they get remounted every few years, or they travel to different companies. Yeah. So just to finish off, I know... Maybe you can tell us briefly. I know you're embarking on a different project in Berlin, which goes back to your very early work, writing plays, and also, I think, has an element of installation in it, but also refers to one of your films. I mean, you could not get more sort of intricate. Yeah. McCoy-esque, really. Yeah, I'm very excited about it. It's a project, as I'm doing, at the Maxim Gorky Theatre in Berlin. And so I'm leaving tomorrow, which is one of the reasons I couldn't be there. And it's basically a way of dealing with this current sort of crisis that's happening in Armenia. And the premise is, I've kept all the historic costumes from Ararat, like 20 boxes of costumes, and they're being donated to the Gorky Theatre, and the theatre wants to have an archival explanation of what this donation means. And so Arsene, who's the lead actress in Ararat, is sort of sent as an emissary. And what starts off as a very casual and quite really almost banal interview becomes more and more threatening as she comes to realize that the theatre doesn't want these costumes, and the country has its own history of way more stories about genocide than it would really want to deal with. And so it doesn't really have space for this other donation. And she tries to kind of justify it by saying, well, you know, these costumes have been used in other films, which they were. Fatih Akin made a film called The Cotton. But at the end of the day, it is an installation, as you say, because the costumes will be donated to the Gorky Theatre. And so there's this kind of reference also to Christian Boltanski's work, these mounds of rags and costumes, which will find their way somehow into some storage facility in Germany. So we'll see how that all goes. I'm not going to make a film of it, though, so it'll be left to your imagination. But I'm excited about it. As you say, I've done theatre as well as opera. I did the North American premiere of Martin Crimp's Cruel and Tender here, which was really thrilling. And I tried, you know, for me, opera is a great way of going back to theatre because it's also working with music and these great scores. And I think one of the things I was most excited about with this film is also these moments where we extract the vocals from Richard Strauss's score. Like at the end, you know, we don't hear her sing that aria as we were hearing the music. And you realize at that point that the music has had this profound influence on film composers, specifically German composers coming to America, escaping from Germany, like Franz Waxman and Korngold, of course, who was an opera composer himself, and most famously Bernard Herrmann, of course. So, you know, I think that that was one of the most exciting parts about this, was actually using the score dramatically and working with Michael Dana to find these other motifs that could discreetly interact with Strauss's music. That was all really thrilling. Well, we may not all get to go to Berlin and see your show, but we can all go home and listen to some Strauss. Yeah, and please tell people. I'm very, very happy that there are these screenings happening at the RCA. This particular room you're in, I have very strong memories of because it's where we showed Calendar, I remember. As I say, this project really did start with this production that I saw in London. It's lovely to have the film back where it kind of began, so please tell people. It really is such a rare thing these days to watch these things on the screen. Well, thank you very much.