# 台词 拯救地球

台词 拯救地球
and studied and learned from might feel intimidating the actual you is incredibly warm, curious about new ideas and eager to share that Ims that you love. I feel very lucky to havered your work as a teenager and even luckier to continue learning for you as an adult. Thank you for everything that you taught me then and now and congratulations. Just 7 10 years ago, I was citing your work in a college essay and realising that I wanted to see film S at University. Now, I can say that I've had the honour of working with a woman who helped me discover my voice and talking about arts and culture. Thank you for paving away for your young women like myself today. I've known Laura Mobby for 40 years. It was in the summer of 1975 that I saw in The Suede carrying a cat of film, which contained her first and I think best film P Slayer. Since then, I've talked with Laura, I've written an energy books with Laura, and I've got drunk before. I've delighted that we film in choose I've given her a fellowship, and I wish I was miss you here tonight. Dear Laura, thank you for your revolutionising insight, your ever renewing critical attention that simply makes the world be shared better. Nobody something You got You' my favourite, Okay, that was quite a... I know. Do you feel theundant now?. I walk can one do. We'll see. 
We're about to find out. This is rather fun. Okay, 



I'm being be rich. I'm here is Inlocutor with the legend. And we've decided to start back sort of at the beginning, back at the origin moment. And And that is the moment of the women's film festivals, and that original work that shaped so much of what came after, at least in the near term. And we first met in Chicago in 1973 and after hearing of this whole litany, I have to say I had the great freedomom of meeting you before you'd written a word about a film. almost anything, a few artistses, a few artistses. But we were there in Chicago, working working together on a women's film festival, inspired by the one at Edinburgh. And we decided we'd start with this moment because it changeded so much that came after it. It cast a very long shadow. And film festivals in those days, I think were very different than they are now, precisely because you couldn't see anything without going there. In fact, even the people that programmed festivals sometimes couldn't see what they were showing to the prince survived going on reputation. And we wanted to start with Edinburgh, and I want to know if you wanted to say a few things about that before we go further? Yes, and I don't say how wanted it is to have our in Miles, who your I think one of the ways ways in which times change under the influence of the women's separation movement, this was almost before feminism consisted as a current, idea. One of the key points of excitement was finding lost works, work by women that had been forgotten, and which technology excavated and seen a gap in a different context with different eyes. And when Linda agreed that Edward F Festival would were what, I think we call the film event. It was the first event of its time. In actual fact there was one in New York, came just before us. And in those days, of course, of intense soridarity, we weren't indignant, just shared information. But it was a very innovative and exciting moment, and just as Ruby said, you couldn't necessarily look at everything in advance. There was a lot of intuition. and a certain amount of reading into the past what we want to find in the person. So I think it was what I think of was excavation, archeology. Archeology. Archeology, yes. I started out to be an archeologist. Yes, you, in college. Yes, Mesorican archeology. Yeah, but this felt like the same time festivals. Yeah, same practice really, yes. But and I think you put it so beautifully in your book, Ch Flex, where you introduce the festival atmosphere that it was one of extraordinary excents of the enthusiasm. And for me, it certainly was an originating moment. It was the first feminist cultural action that I'd been involved. Well, it was kind of the cultural extension of the political work that had procededed it and built on a lot of those same networks and acquaintances and people around the world exchanging information and and really trying to make a change in how how people saw cinema, because no one believed that in these those programme, and that's the other thing. It was trying to find what there was out there. And it was proved that women had been doing work for, that we just didn't know about things up.. Yes, no. But I think you put that very well. It was a moment in which ideas were travelling, ideas were on the move, but ideas don't just move themselves. 




They need facilitators, they need people like Lindard, Edinburgh, they also need the new France to come in and be shown. So there was a sense in that early '70s period that the cinema was changing across the world.. And small distribution companies like the other cinema brought in late 60s, Stra. And these films wanted to reached us if that had to be the the commit future make these things happen. Also, I'll never forget sitting here in LFT 1 in 1973, when David Curtis and Simon Field was on a season of international experimental film, where I saw for the first time Elon Rena again, Chant Aerman, Joyce Weland, who allowed me to physualize a new cinema made by women within a consciousness of women's situation. So I don't think it's important important to remember that not only do ideas move that people have to move them. Very good. On that note, we were going to sort of do a bit of a cheat and start with the from Amy, because rather than go back to some of those films from that period, because you've curated this whole season here, we're going to show in a way. what? I think Amy's first. We get out in the back to back in July.. Yeah, yeah. Uh oh, we're trying to avoid this, but never mind. someone. Yes. So on that note, so in a sense, out of new horizons of possibility scheme that were opening up at the time, was the possibility of making experiment for abongard, challenging, or alternative, or you want to p in movies. So shall we say a little bit about that? Yeah, just a straight. What Denver. I think you talking about it as your response to that decade, because you make a at the end of that decade. And I think that would be interesting just to hear a couple words before we see the clip and we can talk about it. Yes. I think that for me, I'm not quite sure this this is so much the case for Peter, as it is for me, but I was someone who has always responded to to chance at the opportunity that kind of taken out whatever's responding to what was going at the time. And the possibilities that opened up here in the UK were around a movement of experimental filmmakers who kind of combined together, worked together, talked together, and finally organised into the independent Association. So there was a sense of solidarity across radical film, whether it was socialist, collectives, whether it was artists from the London from Megan's K. And this was a short period in which 16 millimetre film expanded our ideas of cinema from representing the world to actually expanding our understanding of the world or something like that. 


Good. So Peter and I have started in Chicago, with B, came back here, did riddles of Sphinx, which is are probably our most important. The Westport. each those individually having rewriting about film Tessing today, now found people playing the other films. he was very keen on the idea of this idea. He used to say, peopleeople make art songs, they make poach songs. Why can't they make theori songs? And that is what we were both interested in, and the opportunity was set.. We did. So Amy was the third of our theory films, and it was inspired by a short piece in a newspaper that we saw in 1980 about the pioneer aviator, Amy Johnson, who flew phone here to Australia in 1930. And the concept behind it was a phrase taken from B Happy the country that needs no heroes. And we were thinking, happy, the movement that needs no no heroines. And we were reflecting on the world of the way in which Amy's move into a status of heroism, then contributed to her becoming the celebrity, and once again, a woman of spectacle. Let's see the cliff now. 




Come on What annoyed me so much was that you couldn't even understand or believe that you had made things enormously difficult for me by phoning for me under my own name. Another thing you cannot realise is that I detest the publicity and the public life that has been forced upon me. I have therefore been driven to tell you, rather too forcibly I admit, what you cannot see for yourselves, that I am seeking hard to use my identity of Amy Johnson, because that person has become a nightmare and abomination to me. My great ideas for a career in aviation had been annulled for a long time to come by the wrong kind of publicity and exploitation, which followed my return to England. I've had a complete collapse ever since the engineer's dinner, and I'm not normal at present. I strongly resent interference and efforts to rule my life or control my actions. I've lived my own life for the last seven years, and I intend to continue doing so. I did die! I say I say I don' say, I' I'm gonna say let me off down in the my your time on the All my my birthday all day I I gotta do I can the same I I say I know I know the Oh, my God and I' American my my I's a good fight because it's all know about it All my I All I can forget I' When you said I'd break a couple of comments after I'd been a couple of times before, so I didn't want to take out too much time. But the idea of using the polari and music in 1980 was that it would mark that number of times as clearly as using a tea dance song, Amy Amy that came came out in 19 Thursday marked that. And so it would become, in that sense, a historical object or it should have. It would become iconic, in fact. But alongside trying to make these films, that would be a departure from what was there, and for like models for what could be, you were also beginning to critique the films made by men with women in them. And even by someone as beloved as Maxo Fools. And. Yes, go ahead. Well, I think that you actually bring up professor and critiquing PPR for cinema and in a way, alongside the excavation project, alongside the new women's cinema project was the critique of patriarchal doominant patriarchal culture and dominant patriarchal cinema, and that was my visual pleasure of nar cinema. 



Oh, okay, I'm going to stop you there, because I mentioned to Laura this morning that after we'd done all of this planning today to take you through her life. We neglected to mention this certain essay. And I said, I didn't think we'd get away with not mentioning it. on stage and that people might want to hear something about how it came to be and let me think of it now, and how it's been used and this used. So I won't make you give us a lecture on it, but what would you like to say about that essay now that has just been present on screen by changing post studies, changed your life and the sense of bringing you forward with it and the those ideas. And how do you feel about it now? standing sitting up here and stake? That's a not. I did warn you. it's I mean, what's important to me about the SA now is that it still stands outside the standard epidemic essay. It was written as a polemic as my dear friend Mandy Murph pus it, as a manifesto of its kind. And that meant that it had certain stylistic characteristics and one that I was very criticised for at the time, possibly by an idea for Ruby Rich, others was that throughout the whole essay, I used the third person singular masculine person. So the spectator throughout was he. Now, of course course, these were the days in which the he was the universal reference to the person, the human being, the subject in society.. I wanted, in a sense, to try and shock the reader in thinking about this, but because I gave no explanation and no rationale for it, it did shock people for it to criticise you when you know. My feminist friends thought this was outrageous but it was also important in that it. It was designed to make people think and so when it's said, analysing an object of beauty destroys it, that's the object of this essing. It had theomic or flourishes, he was one of them. The other thing, of course, Dutch was criticised was the use of Freud. Of course, Freud is now completely unfashionable once again. But in those days, with the seven speeding groups that I belonged to, we were meeting Freud and we'll find finding that although he had very little to say about the female psyche and about the female unconscious, he had had a lot to say about the patriarchal unconscious, and its anxiety, its fundulnerability is, its feticisms, its castration complexes. And we found that in analysing the dominant cultures of patriarchy, this could be like a little kind of opening of a cracking the door that just helped just with the words of perhaps a thinker with blind spots, but also a think of who was interested in the kinds of things we were, which was how, with a gender str journey, how sexuality emerged out of a society in which soated by nature, etcera, et cetera. Good, good. I think that's a perfect entrance into you're talking about seniority too actuallyally, given the clip that they're going to see, yes, and now can I think about Max? Go in. Max. essay, is Pasure cinema, was really about Hollywood, about the Hollywood cinemas that I love and that I started to watch with different eyes in the 1970s, but I knew the film very well and that allowed me to write about some kind of knowledge insight I owed. I never really saw Max Oll's belonging to Hollywood, although he worked there as an exile, and I always saw him as someone who was more anic about the condition of woman as spect for a commodity. I might now say, very respectively, I also think Hitchcock was was quite aware of what he was doing. But then there's another reason for using this clip. waitress that I had hoped to show Max Offwell's film in my big Street screen classics broke down in December, and we hadn't managed to get on in. Okay, so this is competent lawyer. 





Thank you. But we're going to show you a clip from Senior Duti, which was the last film he made, I think, before it had to do with Hollywood. So you know this, I don't. correct me and let's show it. He recently escape from Berlin with the of Well, that's when Hollywood got very lucky because all of the filmmers escaped from from Berlin. He went. Yes. But he made one film in In, which I know, Interestingly as an exiled Jew Jew, working quite easily by fascist. Italy. And this is a film which is very much about this film industry, other modification of the start, and now it. Good, very good. Look, please.. No. No.. I wish I could show you much more, but it's a wonderful draw that does exist for you. But it's fantastic to have this scene of the two men ar arguing over the woman's voice. The woman's body's voice, and just with her absence, and deciding her faith. It's really a f fabulous. But also, just that goes into the Plicita, the Pin image that comes out. And those wonderful scenes that we know from the classic films, in the press room, in the newsrooms, all the apparatus that we don't have anymore That's so regiment. So I cheated, Father, I didn't show one of the kind of archetypal scenes of male gaze, which we could have done, but I thought this was a slightly at more alternative interest to take on it with you. Well, it's a very pleasurable cheat. Thank you for that. But we're going through Laura's. This is this is your life Laura. So we're going through the life and we're coming up on the 80s. And the 80s, of course, on both sides of the Olymp this decade of Reagan and Thatcherism, but also the decade of the start of Channel 4, the workshop declaration, the start of the filmmaking workshops and collectives, and we're going to show a film, we're going to show crystal gazing in a moment, but, oh no, we're going to show imitation of life actually in a moment. But it's also the time of the minor strike. It's kind of huge political changes and of the greater London council and the dissolution of it. And so what about you in the 80s? What we show? We're going to show imitation of life because she wants to talk about that. That's going to be next. Okay. So what's left into the A. In fact, your Lords talk about imitation of that. These are not perfect matches, but, they end making sense. I wanted to show imitation of life at the imp sequence. At this point, because it was a key example of how I learned to teach film. So it actually represents my mood. At the end of the 70s, out of whatever I was doing perform, that makes it movies, which I did a couple more. But by that time, film studies were opening up bit by bit. And there was an opening for me, at Almer College in Reading, and that was my first teaching job. And that was an extraordinary experience for me, because it was it had a very, very rigourous teaching and photocol, which is around textual analysis. And so we watched films on the only way you could watch films and analyse them in those days was on editing tables. And so, I' learned about how to teach them through my colleagues now, and also learnnt about the practice of textular analysis, I just want to say one thing about that, because it seemed to me retrospectively that it was a critical operation of both violence and liberation. It's violence because it does violence to the body of the film. It stops it, it turns it backwards, it shows it in every way that set the way that it should be seen in the movie theatre. 




But at the same time, it's a liberation because you find things that you wouldn't see otherwise. And the opening sequence ofation of life means rock to me partly, I could talk about P Cirque, and again refer toinda and the wonderful season retrospective in Edingh also in 1972. But it's more to think about the way in which the sequence is structured around a balance between two opposing kinds of femininity, two images of motherhood, actually. We have Lana Turner as the mother in distress, who's just lost her daughter, and we have Laurater, and we have Ali whoita more, who finds a child and looks after her. Now, what's interesting here is her Dougas Turk sets up for these songs, so that Laura is going to become a star of theatre and scree later in the movie is shown as spectacle, already being photographed already being good form. Whereas Annie is giving food to their children in a space that's more approximimate as across a glo under the wardwalk of Coney Island, for an interior space, a domestic space. And at the same time, the abovement underneath reflects values of class and race. So these were things that the movie sets are, but that as you watch the movies as it goes forward, you couldn't necessarily take it. Let's see the clip and then we'll talk a bit more about it here. Sie? Sammy! Z! Szy! Hi, Megan. Have you and I live around in really? Oh! Oh, I' sorry. No, I. I'm looking at my daughter. Have you seen a little girl all myself? No, but. She's lost tonight. Susie! What? Susie! The easiest way to find Susie is a girl. So, where are the police?? Right there. Right where? I'm down there.! I'. Can you hear me, Sergo? Hot dog. Hot! Boy! Life even know is a bad ocean, but it seems to me I can hear the bans for hot. I said love it, thank you, Thank you! Honey, going to be all right. I'm important you. My baby! No? I' gonna stay right here. El call your mom going to fight, huh? Susie? Oh, Susie! Oh, my baby. Oh, I thought you were lost. Thank you, all, and thank you very much. And thank you for being on Hi Mrs. John. I'm Laura married. I remember so frightened in my life. One moment, I had her and the next moment she was gone. Well, thank Mrs. Johnson so nice. Thank you. And say goodbye to to the little girl. bye now. But now, we'd have to go back to the city. Then we want to play. We need for! Oh! All right, but don't find it a lot. Come there,! You saw what I meant about the Mise encine and the way in which the spaces were put in a kind of rhyming relation to each other. But it was only later when I stopped the sequence much more, that I realised there was another older mentioned to it. which we can't really illustrate now that I'd just like to mention, which is that you think that Annie is the only African American character on the screen. But I noticed that as Lana Turner walks across the front screen, which shows are left, the photographer is raising his camera and is photographing a very elegant African American extra coming coming down at the very last split second of the shot at that moment, and also, as Annie walks up the steps as you can remember the extras are there in the crowd, which brings up questions of how you make visible or be invisible. that're apparently invisible, but they are that.. But very deliberately unremarked upon. So, yeah, and they' to be found by later readings. And of course, what's beginning to happen also at this time is this attention within feminist film studies to melodrama. And I think you want to say something about melodrama before you go on to see the crystal gazeing. Okay. Yeah. melodrama, popular gen popular popular show generally dismissed as women's weies with special developors like Doug S. were stories of women, stories of emotion, family dramas, interiors both of domestic space, and interiors of the mind and emotion. and aff a part of family life, ordinary relations under the stresses and streng strains of exterior pressures. I mean, it's interesting to me that there is this turn to about about drama, because of course, what's going on in the '80s are also at the same time, outside the domestic sphere, all these political upheopals. 





And I think you're gesturing to those with the sequence from crystal gazing that go to look at, that's very much marked by that moment in the UK and with the conversation that place. I' never thought of that. I'm sorry, sorry. This is what one does when on stage trying to make this thing move to the earrings. But that's a really interesting. I mean, I suppose throughout there was a reevaluation of emotion in various ways. But in the crystal gazing cliff that we're going to see, we have a rather different perspective on the the kind of political, what you might call the utopian political discourse of the 1970s, where we were critiquing language and the way that oppression and exploitation were not simply to be understood economically, but also to be understood through language. And here we might have a kind of subliminal reference to quant, you can slide over there. But in the dialogue way to see, which Peter wrote, he is to certain an extent, as it were commenting on what our political political principles have been in the 1970s and also kind of laying the moment for critique. Right. And I just have to say that two characters were in dialogue here. One of them has just written his PhD on the fairy tale Puss in Boots and Peter was very interested in Pussy Boot, so it was a project very near his heart. So his thoughts are there, and he's just had a very apparently disastrous PhD. But I thought very disastrous PhD however. So there's a bit of inside baseball, you United States, as they say in the United States. Inside baseball.. We'll see. It's going to be very inside baseball, but I wouldn't bother to get any more. end and out of it. those of you who are alive at the time who recognise it. There's of you who are kind of afraid by this ins. It's a jaundice look at the moment. clearly will,. Examiners of the law, and I broke their rules by speaking to them in the wrong language. You were like candendson and they were like law laws. That's right. Yes, you could be right. Perhaps you've got something there. The Lor Party Manifesto was written in the language of desire. But the law laws. controlled the language of power. Basically said,The Lor Party Manifesto has no meaning at all. And it turns tenderly stone into a figure of fer, failed trickster. You should have taken legal advice. All that means is there's only one language and it's ours. The problem is, how do you bring desire and power together? What's their language for that? Well, you can put it infection, can't you? That's why Puss in B is a story. You can't say that. What not? You can't say that puss in Boot can only just exist in the story, and how you can never change anything. All the means will be fixed forever by the House of Lords or, whoever was in charge of the logic of non contradiction. That's why. what Cre wanted, to turn Puss Gusts into a reality, or to put it more precisely, to find a way of filling the symbolic place of Pussing's reality into the real. I do understand something of what you're saying, Julia, but I am your friend, and I'm making an another. You can't just wander down to camp County Hall and expect the Grzer London labour group to understand it.? You can put it in a story, then they may understand it, but I wouldn't understand it as practical politics. Well, would they? they? Look, I've got to go, I can't stay here any long. I'm freezing the bloody day. to be sorry. I didn't notice. You haven't got you, coat. I know. What happened to me? I lost it. Probably in a pub. It's certainly more likely than a taxi, knowing the way things are going nowadays. I'll walk back with you. I can see that the radical semiotic theory doesn't sound right. is not. really in the class. But what is the point? 




The point is that the ruling class doesn't just rule by practical politics. rules by defining the language as well. Look at the Social Democratic Party. The signifying politics hasn't changed at all. Only the signifier. It hasn't broken the model of British politics. It's just broken the mould of the way in which polit exists his name. It's like this is the only of colour terminology. Coloured names are defined in relation to each other. They haven't changed the wavelengths of the colours in the specterum. They've just introduced a new term to define the range in the middle of the spectrum. That means it changes the meaning of the other two terms by redefining them. It's a smstring. No, yeah. There's spots people say that nothing has actually changed at all. Well, it isn't. that's the not. Language and language isn't just a smoke screen. You can't say the colours are a smoke screen for the spectrum. You know, there's something else that struck me about this evening. I what that? So, this is coming up tonight to the '90s. Yes. And I think you wanted to talk about this new major shift in spectatorship for you, having to do with technology. Do you want to start there, but do you want to start coming out of this clip and talk about the crisis in industry? Which should be interesting. I think I could through a bit around that. Um Um, I do space. Well, we're actually, yes, we're going to do space mile next, so we can that. Yes, and then I'll I'll. I said earlier that I tended to take up chances that came my way. and this was a moment in which history was obviously changing in crisisis. It was the moment when the monuments were going down in the Earl Soviet Union. And my friend Mark Lewis, who must be. There he is back then. My friend Mark Lewis, who was living and working as an artist in, Canada Canada, working with an organisation called public, which bringing public art, bringing art in public spaces. He was really interested in the phenomena of being bringing down the statues, and he was in London for a few days and told me about it, and I said, kind of while out of the g, that sounds like a nice little documentaryary for a church. And so as in those days, there was still some money coming out of state supporting Canningham, we decided to go ahead and do. And so Mark and I, a really wonderful team went to Moscow in 1981. and made a film which its message was really that that progressive politics should try and preserve the past, even if that representation passed wasn't necessarily acceptable to the new moment. But sweeping away the past was generally overression, which would then return in some unexpected or unpleasant way or another. And so we saw saw the taking down the monuments as incentary not just of what was happening in the Soviet Union at the time, but actually about the whole problem of the representation of history and the representation that a society makes of its history to itself, when it it's going through a particular evil. and something like that. which of course, has gotten replayed in recent years in the United States in awful ways, with the taking down and now pending reinstatement of Confederate monuments. But that's another story. 




Should we go ahead and take a look at disgraced monuments and then we have a few more things to still cover. We do that. Okay, good, please..!.. I should have said that the mage is actually about the earlier moment when the new revolution, the new Leninist typography, the current of Lenin, was specifically replacing the H, that we' born to the next phase when thehy planet then disappearears in favour of style., yeah. Now it's funny, because I've just been writing about the work of the Georgian from Lag Dova Bitzi, who just made an autobiographhical film at the age of 93, talking a lot about her own mother, who was sent to the gulag by Stalin for 12 years and survived, and he was one of the the first Soviet women filmmakers... So there's just thinking about the ways in which these histories get done and undone, and seem to be irreversible and then crumbled. So it's quite interesting. Okay, so coming into the 90s and they arrival with DVD and the ways in which time time could be frozen, what you wanted to say something about, I think, is the kind of new kind of spectatorship that opened itself up for you and how that influced your thinking at that time. Yes. Perhaps I could put it like this that there were two moments in my life when I felt my spectatorship transformed in front of my own eyes, not really something that I had meant to happen, but happened. The first was the one that we've already mentioned, which was when I started seeing movies very differently under the inference of the women's movement. around the in 70s. And this, I just started looking differently. In this was a collective experience. It was something that was shared by other women, other feminists, whyely discussed the eyes, not only by me, but in general, the 1990s experience was very different. It was isolated, individually. It was me on my own with my DVD player and my remote control, exploring the fact that this literal open remote device gave the spectator control over the flow of a narrative, which then could fagment it, control over the image of the stars, which could then freeze them and hold them for so that the active male protagonist could be exhibited as spectacle as much as the female staff. So there was in a sense of kind of gender sliding there. But all also, I found that as I stopped the film, bit by bit, I found that I was thinking more and more about the presence of time and temuality in the cinema. and that cinema, I'd still think to this day, I might be wrong, anyone can contradict me, but I think that cinemainema is more about temporality and about the depiction of time than any of the other arts. Time is actually inspired into film, not only by the original process of filming itself, but also, if we think back to seo, now, when be told me, when we prep this, she said, Laura, remember this is a lecture. She said, this is a conversation. So, you've got to keep me under control. But if you think about celluloid, you think about the relationship between the frame and the sequence, you have instantality and your age.ation simultaneously. Nothing else, I think, apart from film achieves this. Okay, I'm going to stop you there, because I think the other example of what you're saying, what you wanted to show, was Siel very tough's man with a movie camp, I guess. So perhaps we should just jump into that and then pick up the rest of us. This was a sequence that had a film made in 1929. Once again, the Soviet Union, it's strange for clips together. But it had its biggest impact on me in the 1990 years when I was working on my book. Yes, 24 times a second, stillness and movement to the Stillness, I not can help you. Anyway, you'll.. Let's see the clip. So I think it's also interestingly, you know, inscribing on the screen of the world of women editors that were so important in those years.. who was Vertov's wife, who was the editor, and his brother was the cinematographer that was see at the beginning. Yeah. Well, there were also aspects of that sequence that I.. So I found just very precisely put together about what you could have to call the magic of cinemainema the actual man with a movie camera who's the hero who's doing the filming and who's turning everyday life into the inscription of the everyday and preserving it on the light sensitive of culid strip. So that is in a sense, one aspect of the magic power. V of preservation, bonment of inscription that's then preserved by from then to.. No. And then sh happens when the horse suddenly stops it and is frozen, and it's this power of cinnamon, exactly.ate the inanat. So with the editing sequence, you then see the other magic of cinema, which is to turn the inneranimate strip into the fascinatingly animated film on the screen. And the little cliffs that you see are taken from the moment, some of them, areents that you the faces of women that you've already just seen, but the children come from a sequence where they're watching an actual magician. And so the reference, I think, is very specific to the magic cinema. And so I started just associatedating the animation of the inanimate, which is the mechanism of cinema, but also the way in which the cinema keeps the dead alive, and so that by now, everyone we see mostly on the screen are no longer with us. And this is also another part of the fascination of film, the way that it actually embalms time and embalms the past. 




So So in guess 24 out of the second, I thought about the spectator who becomes fascinating when watching time pass, and all those things I've just been talking about. I call it the pensive spectator. And then I thought, this does sound for a bit austere. And so I then brought in the possessive spectator, who was fascinated by the image of the star and wanted to be able to hold on to that image and think in foster gender ways upside d down ways about the importance of the beauty of the human form on industrial film, forever and ever. and a massed huge DVD collections to illustrate this because I think this is also the move to VCRs and videoassents and DVDs. When you' talk about the possessive spectator, it's not only of the image on your screen, yes, but the sense in which this becomes a sort of somewhere between a jewel and a commodity, that people begin to amass. Yes, it's between a library and a jewel, in a way. And you can actually begin to earn movies in the first time. time ever. So that the fandom, which used to evol around posters and penups and so on, could turn into actually earning the well thing. the thing.. This is our criterion classics moment of let's talk, yeah. But we' we have something else we want to talk about, which was it's out of historical sequence, but very much still important and decurrent, which is Julie Dash's Daughters of the Dust. 





And I think that you wanted to talk a bit about the way in which race was and wasn't part of some of these earlier conversations, and the ways in which this film had so much to say about the spectral child and about history and about hauntings. Actually got two points here. because, again, thinking about my physical pleasure announced cinema essay, thinking about what finally evolved into my images, it has an appendix called There's your turn of knowledge of cinema. 10 frequently asked questions. 10 FAQs. And one of them, questions sorts of people are. Ask me, why didn't you mention the female spectator? Your where's the female spectator?. Where is the g spectator?. And then, particularly, why didn't you mend it race? And that became questioning question historical is for me, because I began to realise more and more that one's polemic comes out of one's own politics, you can't necessarily do other people's politics, for one thing, you can't cover every symbol position. But also that the importance of raising Hollywood was absence. And I started to think about Hollywood in terms of evasia and and apartheid, in fact. The evasia was so extreme, and the presence of African American figures on the screen were so diminished that it was almost like a kind of signature guarantee of the apartheid nature of this cinema. And imitation of right just to give a credit to Doug is in the sense of film about that kind of indisability and it would also fitted in with my interest at the time with the tradition, in Hollywood in particular, from as silent non synchronised cat synchronised cinema. And the way it coincided with our normal ' 20s, the mid 20s, late 20s, a critic explosion of African American culture on the the stage in Broadway, one on the radio, in performance, music, but it was really huge. Why the question was, when Hollywood, well, as one of the W Brotherss p it, if it can speak, that it can sing. why was this extraordinary talent taken out and used on the screen when this transition synized sound happened? And there were a couple of attempts, but they were serious attempts, and in a way, that their failure, again, kind of guaranteed the impossibility of pushing African American persons, an African American culture onto the screen as something celebrated in its own way. And interestingly, even though we're going to see a clip from Ders of the Dust, before she made that, Jud Dash made a film about exactly that and all her notions, yes, which was made in black and white short film about the hiding of black talent, that's what you could say, that involves a black singer being brought in to dub the voice for the White House actress on screen who can't sing. And so it's about the contribution simultaneous contribution and invisibility. of of black men and women within the all of the system. But then she goes on finally to be able to make her feature film, her one feature film, Daughters of the Dust, which we're going to look at. Do you see anything? 191 Yes. But I mean, we're kind of moving recklessly through eras here. Well, putting clips here and there to fifth conversation. But I remember distinctly seeing the premiere of Daughters of the Dust at a private screening in New York that was attended by Bell Hooks, Tony K on Bombar, and many other really important, now gone figures of that moment, as they came to look at it and talk about it. And, yes, should we see Do you want to say anything about the two sequences put together that we're about to use? Yes, I Again, to push it in context, I wrote about Dawson The Dust in a series of five studies of films made by women and about crises of motherhood. I mean, in fact, the crisis is less acute in daughters than d. But in the other films that I wrote about this, it's about by Ces of. It's also about thinking about the way in which.. No, I think we might watch it. Good. Yeah. And again, the clips that Ruby and I chose are ones that emphasised Judy Dash's reflectlections on cinemas and magical form, and again, very, very importantly, on the way in which past and present address each other. and the ways in which we're haunted by the past, in fact, we'll we'll wait on that. Okay. They the last of the older and the faster they knew. The older I get, the cru I get the ground. This is the worst place for Barney when it's slavery time. Please have the sky withdrew from the priisonous gig good diamond, Han plantation from Swaban. with spirit numb from this spirit sting of fever from the right hill. with buckle bending down, while we' deplanting a Andyen and the sea island cotton. It was an elder in many, many years back when it lived in in by's arms, he saw Africa in our face.? I It was the age of beginnings. It comes those processes. The newspapers said it was a time for everyone, the rich and the poor, the powerful and the powerless. If you want to know about them African people, you need to talk to Bao. You. I know one Negroes. What's. They still below from Africa when he's just a lee boy. They come over on the very last slave ship. We love come over only wander around. We saw something of the beaut, the sequence of the menwia the sand with the fades of the female, but the film is magically shot itself, but it also references the magic of cinema. 





A very important thing brings together the past and the future. It takes place in one single day where the Brazant family are coming together to have a feast, before most of them moved north. It's set in 191, I think and once remainland in islands.. Chicago, New York, which is why the unhorn child looking through the stereoscopes is the streets of where they're going to go. And it's also sat on the island of the. So it's got a very extraordinary contained time and space, which is also just to go back to our earlier conversation, but relates perhaps in a rather different way to melat drama and the story of the mother, but in this case, not directed by a male director, but directed by Julie Dash and with a central figure of great, I couldn't work out how many grapes she was. a great, great, great land. with her memory when she keeps in her boss. Right, well, it's so much about cultural transmission. It's about loss as well as persistence and traces of survival, traces of the past. And yeah, and it was very powerful when it was made. When that came out, there was nothing else like it. still. Well, I remember that before the phenomon of Black Panther, I had people dressing up were going to the theatre in groups. Before that, this was shown at film forum, tiny theatre in Lower Manhattan. was shared in film, okay, excellent taste, obviously. And the buses, people were chartering buses from other cities to go to from farm to see, it had to be held over, held over, held over. So it's not just our appreciation now, but the way in which black communities responded to that film and came to see it was very exceptional. But then, Judy Dash didn't get another future form. No, never got to. I mean this was going back perhaps to some of the points that Jay made at the beginning, the struggle that women have had, we're re celebrated them in the festival the 1970s. Still the struggle went on. And she worked in television, I think, a bit of the idea. has an Air watch. But yes, I do. However, we we're going in on the end of this evening yet. And so I want to pull us out of this moment, back into a little bit of his presentence as we've finish with something unexpected in the past. And think about now this has been such an extraordinary evening of going through your perceptions of cinema, your histories with cinema, the histories of your writing, and to end with this, which I think is such an extraordinary, almost one off of the film, a film that kind of stood on its own for many years until a new kind of black cinema evolved. And I think it's also like an interrupt Ruby, because you said, what would I say to wind up? Yes. And what I was thinking about in terms of the Julie Dash from Daughter of the Dustk, but also the Ivanian film under the skin of the city ofbo Sh, this cinema. and then there was the two films I garden, which are made from combination of material. and the so extraordinary, so extraordinary. All crises of of motherhood, but also telling the kinds of stories that I think male directors wouldn't have thought of approaching. And what's important about women in cinema is that they tell these stories and they tell them different kinds of approaches to now activity. And I knew Joanna is here. Joanne Hog? Yeah, we could use her songs also as another example. But what's important for our culture our society is that these storiesries come into existence and they're not there just for the benefit of women. They're actually there for the benefit of their whole people, the whole of society, because the lack of presence of women making art, making culture, telling stories is actually being a tragic loss to society as at home. We're going to end with one final tiny, tiny film that is not about a man or a woman.'t have a star in it. I've called it my favourite film. It's only 40 seconds long. And it's alumia film made in 18 probably not probably 1896 or 7. and Roomy was teasing me about it, but we still thought we'd show it. I love it for its cinematic qualities. It has an action star, and it also plays in a very cinematic way with different planes, with a foreground plane, and a background plane in which you can see again, something has always appealed to film spectators as magic form. The movement of the leaves and the wind and the movement of steam coming up up to the journey. And the central figure, of course. And I thought it was good to end with it, because it's a very rare example of L Maldi being in sync with pop culture of Instagram, Facebook, and take a top floor at all. You can judge for yourself. Go ahead., please...