# 哈桑在加沙


In the first instance, because we hear, at a certain point in the film, "No, no, no, don't worry, no one will see this footage, or perhaps not for many years. Hmm. Uh, thank you so much. I'm very happy. to be here, and to meet you, finally. Yeah, it's really difficult for me to exactly remember. what happened back then. This was,000 a month, and I was already studying at about academy in Leon. I went to study abroad and I came back to Palestine and I took with me a camera, which was at the time, kind of a new invention, the NDD, I don't know some of you maybe you remember. and it was a camera that, yeah, very small and you know, easy to operate. So I took I took this camera with me and I I did this trouble to Gaza, and my idea wasn't really to make a film. I was kind of thinking about making a film about my personal experience. And in the stripping gazza, I was young, trying to to find this uh friend that I met to prison when I was 17 then I I did not know what happened to him, where he is today, back then. um and I was basically uh filming I was as I was looking, you know, in the field. This was like one day trip. first between the first and the second of November, 2001. And I was received by Hassan, who was introduced to me by a friend. I don't't remember who introduced me to him, but he worked as a picture helping people who, you know, come to Gaza to take them around journalists or NGO people, and he was my guide, and he put me around. And as you see in your film, you know, it basically becomes something else. I mean, starts with this idea of the search, but then I quickly was more and more interested in all these places and people that Hassan was taking me to. I just want to lecture that the fact this film was not edited, meaning that basically I used almost everything that was found on the three tapes that I found. So it's the same order of the shots, you know, it's really the way it starts, the zoom the film begins with a zoom over the checkpoint and then end the wave ends, everything that you see in the film is really the same version that I found on the tapes. There were three tapes in photo. And where were these tapes for 20 years? You know, it's really a mystery for me, the discovery of these tapes, because a year ago, I was asking myself, you know, what art and filmmaking can do in a time like this, you know, really a total catastrophe and, yeah, mass killings of people at live. And I did not have an answer, you know, I did not want to basically repeat again what what we are watching on social media. You know, I believe that cinema really needs distance to events, to stop stories. And it's really very strange because the exact I was really struggling with these thoughts, because I felt I should do something, you know what I mean, to contribute to resistance, to protest, to anything that would make people understand what's happening happening in Palestine.. I was looking for a hard drive, and in a box, and suddenly, I see one tape, mini DB tape with the writing on it in Arabic, Mah Hasan Firaz with Hasan in Gaza. So I I look at him and I said, "This is strange." I thought at the beginning that maybe someone gave it to me, I didn't even recognise my handwriting. So I went to I was really very anxious. I thought, there must be something there I have to watch. And I went to the company where I could play the BDV because you needed this player that nobody has or kind of freaks that exist in some cities. They have players and so I went there and I asked him to put the tape inside and it got stuck. And he couldn't play it, and he told me,kay, come tomorrow, because I have to open the player and then, you know, I came came the following day, and he fixed it, and he laid the thing for me, and I'm watching, and still I did not know who felt that until I could recognise that we are in Gaza, but until the moment where I'm handing the camera to Hassan to film me. Then I started slowly remembering that I did distributor. And I think one of the reasons why I did not remember at all was that I never watched these tapes. I took them with me back to Cologne, where I was already studying, and you know I studied a new life there, I was doing other things, and I never saw them. And they basically appear in this moment where they are needed. It is really as if this film was making it set for 24 years and waiting for me to find it. That's why I described this film as a found film. But it is really the mystery of life itself, because until today, I still don't believe the habit. Wow. It's so fascinating. It's a sign, it's a sign of life, you know, it's a sign of, you know, existence. It's a sign that erasure, this is how I think about it today, you know, that erasure will never succeed, you know, it never succeeded. There would be always traces. There would be always a life that, yeah, exists. And it also speaks perhaps to how important moving image recordings are to our own sense of memory and to the way that we we kind of come to understand our own experience. Because the film is a very strange mixture of we are first person witnessing, and then the sense of being a kind of found archiveal second hand cinema film. Yeah, I mean, it's really difficult for me to understand exactly what was the process, because really, it wasn't planned. But the decision of not doing a second erasure, like what you usually fitmmakers do, you know, they fit so much then they arrange things, right? They choose their selection. And this in the case of this project, the selection itself, and removing scenes was so painful to me. And I have done it a couple of times in the process of making a film, and I would talk more what it meant to make a film in this case. and I would just put it back again. because I felt, yeah, I'm doing something wrong, you know, like, these faces, they have to stay with these places, they. So I had to choose between making a film and choosing life. It was really something that entirely new for me, because usually I do a lot of work with montage, with editing, and the last film that I made a fewday film is basically that, you know, it's like reworking of images, creating a certain order to express myself to, you know, a lot of play. In this case, I could not do it. So I had to keep it as it is, but then at the same time, you want to make a film. So how you do it. And this is where, in fact, sound came in as a very crucial element, as really a language of editing that I wasn't able to do with images. Sound, music, and I'm happy that Simon Fisher Turner's here, please salute him for his work. Really, the work on the sound is something so essential for this film production, of course, but specifically for this, because I could work with the sound to edit and to bridge between the past, which is is, you know, what we see from 2001. And actually today, without, you know, putting that into words. So this was very important because I did not want to kind of show this kind of worked against the idea of the film to show what happened to the place today, what happened to G today. It's actually a work that you do as a viewer. And people know, most people know what happened, whether they are in solidarity or not, but they know. So this was very essential. And then, as the film started with not remembering, you know, while watching, I was not really remembering, it evolved into remembering. And that's why the the writing, which most of the time begins with I remember, is the process that I went through myself from not remembering to remembering. And is this perhaps why the text comes at the end? Yeah, I mean It's quite striking. You know that so much of, I think the power of the film is consolidated by this final text of yours. Yeah, you know, I wrote actually the the text before starting working on the film. And some of it ended up in the film itself, like in the last part of I think it's almost one hour, 20 minutes or something like that, where my personal memories appear. But then the idea of endred is something that I have been working on for the last 10 years years, where, in fact, the end credits are not the usual end credits, you know, I found it always terrible that filmmakers do this end credits and they put their names and the names of the people that work in the film on a landscape or on images, or it's like it's so violent. And instead of that my necessity was really to share memories and stories that I could not do inside the film itself. It is separate, but actually it is part of the film because you wish afterwards that you have known that before. But I cannot tell you this before. It's really, that many people would tell, oh, but why you didn't say this before? Then people are more engaged on watching. Actually, I believe it's all the opposite. So, you know, I like this process that we go through while watching, and sometimes it's painful for some people, because they have to wait. And this is what Hassan is telling me all the time. I mean, I really, I consider today, my first teacher because in filmmaking, because he's telling telling me all the time, wait, be patient. So it's really a process, and I always wonder why people, for example, in cinema do not accept waiting and wandering around, but they do the same when they go for a walk in the city or in the woods, you know? They go for a walk like for an hour or two. Why can't we have a walk in images? But it seems like a lot of the form of this film is sort of setting up a quiet opposition to various other ways of making images, whether it has to do with kind of spectacular violence or sensationalised atrocity or narrative propulsion. Do you see this film as a kind of criticism of the way that many images of Palestine circulate in the news media? Absolutely. I think. Yeah, in a way, you know, in a quiet way, these white images, they resist the violence. And I think sometimes it's really not good, not beneficial to show the violence, you know, especially not in cinema, because it's something that you need a space to kind of wander. And in a way, it's sometimes not showing is stronger than showing. Because when you watch this specific project, you know, when you watch, for me, this is the path that is most painful, the path where children are approaching me to film them. when you watch that, of course, you will have the thoughts, what happened to these people. Where are they today? And I think by not showing you basically also create the space with a viewer where people connect with what they are watching. you? And they find their humanity. Why, when you see images of violence, you know, people going through really horrible things, you yeah, you might feel empathy, but actually it creates separation. in a very bizarre way. And you have to work on yourself so so hard to connect again with what you are watching. because it's so violent. And I think in this case, like creating a space where people, yeah, watch and connect and wander with you and question with you is much more important important. We see all of these kind of beautiful images of daily life and family and play, and so on, yet the sort of violence of occupation is also inscribed within them. And this is something that manifests itself sometimes in very small ways throughout the film. And I wonder, I mean, I think of this as a road movie in certain ways, but it's also a film that's very much about confinement. And I wonder how you understand this kind of tension in the film between these moments of beauty and freedom and moments of documenting life under occupation, in your movement through Gaza, but then the sense that this is, as you say, in the final text, the biggest prison in the world. Yeah, you know, I was asked a couple of times how, since I', you know, touring with this film, what did you feel when you went there? And I don't remember specifically the trip because I went a couple of times to Gazza, this was my last trip. 2001, because from 2005 or six, if I'm not mistaken, one could not visit Gaza anymore, you know, there was this whole kind of siege because Hamas came to power, and then there was this siege on Gaza, not visit anymore. But back then, 2001, it was still possible. And I remember that in my visits to Gaza, every time I could usually it's a couple of days or one day, you have really such a strong strong emotions because it's like visiting people in prison. And there's nothing really more accurate in describing this feeling that that. They are more hopeful than you. It's very, very strange, you know, and they are, you know, in the case of Gaza, the people are so, so gentle and so welcoming. that it is really painful when you leave Gaza, and this is the final scene in the film, which is really as it was found on the tape. I am back with my family and I'm handing the camera to a shot that strangely enough, his name was also Hassan, and someone some people think oh, it's the same one, but it's no.. Yeah, it's it's it's Yeah. You mentioned these very striking moments throughout the film where people are saying, film me, film me. But in fact, they make that exclamation for different reasons across the course of the film. And I wonder, you know, this to me is very much also a reflection on the act of what it is to be photographed and understandinging. photography as something that is done not just by the filmmaker, but also that is sort of the agent, the subject of the photograph of the film is also in agent in the of demanding that they are filmed. Yeah, I mean, when you when I watched the film today, when I was naked, when I was watching the material, you know, quickly, I realised, you know, the difference between the approach of others and children. So the others, they've already developed a kind of critical kind of approach to cameras. And already they created a kind of fear from this tool because it can harm them, and it does. While the the children, you know, they're innocent, they, you know, for them, it was, you know, someone coming from outside and they just wanted to be filmed. I mean, they would tell the usual in Arabic, take a picture of me. Because I think they thought that because the way I'm I'm holding this camera, which is very small, they thought that it's a photo camera. And the children, I don't know if some of you speaks Arabic here, but they would call me Sawar, which doesn't exist actually in Arabic. Musawur, which means photographer. Sawar is like they invented this word. What does it mean, vaguely? There's no such doesn't exist, because Surah in Arabic is picture. It's interesting that they invented this word sua Sawar and not Surah Musawur, which is the correct one. I like more of the children's version.ar. It feels more free and dreamy. So they would they ask me, you know, sar, the photographer, take a picture of me. thinking that I'm just taking pictures, probably because I was into already, uh kind of still kind of camera work. The opposite of Hasan, because Hassan liked to zoom. You can see the difference sometimes, for sure. He was like first time seeing this camera and he yeah, he found this the zoom so like, nice to do, you know, you can zoom. And I like his zooms because usually you think he's going to zoom to us talking, but no, he's zooming.. I kind of like it. Yeah. But it is it is a really nice aspect of the film because there's always this question of like, what is the important thing, you know? And the important thing that emerges in many of these images is not what would typically be deemed the most important thing. You know, so this kind of rearranging of thinking about what is is worth looking at is something I think is a really important part of this film. Absolutely. I mean, really, one example is really the way Hassan is zooming into the image. And every time I watch, until today, I think he's gonna zoom on us, but no, he's going somewhere else. And you know, most of the film is actually the travelling shots in the car, and I think when I watched the film today, I think I was a beginner, you know, I was still looking for, yeah, a way to film. And when I look at the film today, I think I did all the right decisions, because I never start filming, which wouldn't be the case of me today, or filmmakers in general, because you are already thinking, oh, maybe this is not worth worth filming, because we think we know, that actually we don't. And because I was a beginner and I did not make a film before, I just kept filming all the time, even when the car goes backwards, I feel. And also because I was there just for one day. So I was really filming all the time. As I was looking, I was filling. And I think today when I see the film, I think, really, this is the best way of making films. is to film film as you look. I don't think I can repeat this again, because, yeah, I'm someone else today, but I think when you begin, you let yourself somehow be there in a way that you cannot, when you are already an experienced artist withaker. I'm sure we have many questions from the audience, so we'll open up in just a second, get ready. But before that, you mentioned the music thing so decisive, and I wanted if you had any thoughts you wanted to share on the precise choice of the songs. They're incredibly beautiful, and the lyrics also seem to have this power of commentary. Yeah, the songs. So, my first motivation and the inspiration was in fact what we were listening to while we were travelling. And one of the the singers that people in the art world in general, and also in Gazestine, they listened to as Un. So I added another song by Uncle Tom, you know, as ifhlet's coming from the radio, and still listens a little bit cheating here, but and then two songs that were actually quite essential for the kind of feeling that this film is slowly achieving the one song which is by a Palestine musician that actually did one album called Alsar. His name is George Kmos from Jerusalem. and this was a song that he wrote for the Prisoners. And the second one, also a Palestinian song by a rocko band that existed in the 70s in Ramanla called Silver Stones. And they released this as well as one LD that I have with the title I love, which is the song that you added the film. And you know, I felt like I want to share this musical cult culture that exists in Palestine, which is really very rich, you know, songs that somehow add music, which is engagedaged politically and socially and just love songs as well. But this needed to be also somehow distorted sometimes, and this is where Simon came in. because I needed to add yeah, a new element to it which is talking about today. So it's like revisiting this music in a way that you still have it, but not as it was, but it is something else. Thank you. I believe we have a microphone that will be passed around 37 a hand just here in the centre. just 10 minutes. 10 minutes. I so much this was, um.. really moving. I'm also glad that at the end we got the story of the lady thing, how it works in the bedroom on the wedding, right. No, because I think it's really important. It sounds actually of things that are possible in Palestine and probably across the so called Muslim world that I don't think we have in Europe. An an actress I've worked with for theat Company in Gazza for many years and especially over the last two years, and we've been working a lot with letters by an actor in Gaza. But again, always trying to stay away from images and letting. F. And we're often told that a reading of no illogism does the text of like watching a film. So the text that men very rated written. film must have really reminded me maybe of anything else that I've seen over the last two years of the at the in Paris about the archeological patrimony of Gaza which I wonder if she'd seen, if she had, I really recommend it to everyone, because it says nothing about any human being in Gaza today, but it tells you everything about this what's happened to those sites. And in a way, again, it leaves you that work and it doesn't it's not even very big, but it's incredibly strong. So I was just wondering if you see it, and then I I know how it makes you find your friend. No, I. Let's yeah, it's not the same like the exhibition in Paris because the the absent or d is putting under. But not the same absence that you have in the film, which is also completely motivatedated. So it's two different things, and I think the exhibition in Paris, they were trying to avoid talking directly about what happened to people, and they focussed just to what happened to the place, which I find really, uh, yeah, quite shocking because everybody looks as to this question the other, why this exhibit does not talk about the people. I think itends. I mean of course, the exhib the exhibit is great and you see the rich history of Gaza and all these sites that existed. But yes, places are important, but also people are important. You know, they belong, you know Other questions, there's another one just here. Hello? hello. Well, thanks so much for the film. It was great. One thing that Ruby stood up to me at the beginning was when you were filming the border between them and the settlement, I think you asked, you asked Hassan if they would shoot at someone holding a camera and he said no, it would be different if it was a weapon. I'm just wondering how do you feel or how did you feel when you looks back at that video today knowing that people in guys are she at? like all wire around the