# 夜夜春宵


#DVD 长评-long live drinking tea。影片恬静和理智又充满着神秘与性感，有恢宏壮大的大教堂也有静谧美好的稻田，很和谐的把众多情绪融为一体展现出了一种别样的魅力。能感觉到影片极强的私密性，应该是结合了导演的生活和战时的思考，这种生活的真实性结合那个时代背景所带来的冲击是极强的。影片侧面展现了战争背景下的英国乡村的生活状态和丢失的一种精神传承。不论是美国大兵，肯特郡女兵还是伦敦的英国兵都是这片乡村这种精神的见证者，胶水男像是民族集体丢失的精神传承。影片虽然角色视角多，阐述的方式也都不相同，胶水男把他们聚到了一起，又由同一种精神引领最后都到了坎特伯雷大教堂受到祈福，管风琴演奏的梦想，失联已久女友的来信，非婚夫活着的消息。光影是最有特点的，大量夜景悬疑感铺垫的很好，还有招牌的脸部特写结合眼部光影效果，几次手持POV镜头效果极佳，那个摄影机的十字POV镜头也在之后出现在他们的作品《偷窥狂》中了。

有穿帮镜头，阳光下摄影师的影子。

A Canterbury Tale
Probably Powell and Pressburger's most personal and unusual film, A Canterbury Tale bewildered critics and audiences on its release, but has since come to be seen as one of their very best; Pressburger himself later declared it his favourite.
The film is structured as a mystery story, but its real purpose is to add a spiritual dimension to the propaganda message of earlier films like 49th Parallel (1941) and One of Our Aircraft Is Missing (1942). There are no Nazis in A Canterbury Tale and, although the war provides its backdrop, the focus is on identifying a distinctively moral and spiritual English identity, in direct opposition to the harsh material objectives of fascism.
The film offers a vision of an England with its spiritual roots in the countryside exemplified by the beauty of Kent - the county of Powell's birth - an England which its increasingly urban population have neglected for too long. Evoking Chaucer's Canterbury Tales, the film charts the progress of a select band of modern pilgrims. As the trio of land girl Alison (Sheila Sim), American officer Bob (John Sweet) and British officer Peter (Dennis Price) converge on Canterbury Cathedral, each receives a 'blessing' , bringing his or her most fervent wish to life. The film's peculiar power owes much to Eric Portman who, as the enigmatic Thomas Colpeper - local Justice of the Peace, prophet and one of Powell's many screen alter-egos - delivers an intense and complex performance, just as he had in 49th Parallel three years earlier.
Despite the trappings of Christianity, particularly the grand finale in the cathedral, the film's strange atmosphere seems at times closer to paganism than Anglicanism, and the most memorable character, a mysterious man who pours glue in the hair of local women who fraternise with soldiers, resembles a fairytale bogeyman. Critics were particularly uncomfortable with the morally ambiguous figure of the glue man, and many remembered this in their outrage at Powell's 'unsavoury' solo work Peeping Tom (1960) 16 years later.
Eerie and resonant, A Canterbury Tale is perhaps the most complete expression of Powell's fascination with the mystical power of landscape, which is also visible in works like The Edge of the World (1 937), I Know Where I'm Going! (1 945), Black Narcissus (1947) and Gone to Earth (1950).
Mark Duguid, BFI Screenonline
 
His exteriors carry authentically the atmosphere of the weald and, aided by impressive studio sets and shots of the Cathedral itself, his interiors are equally eloquent. Hillier's material has been edited with a sure touch, although both editing and direction generally sometimes proceed to a tempo much too leisurely. There is much else of good in this film - its expressive background music, its observant characterisation of many varied types, its wide awareness of the historical background no less than the warlike background of today, the unusual naturalness evoked from practically everyone in it, even its crowds. In the leading roles, Portman does a conscientious job with a difficult role, Sweet creates charm without over-sentimentalising and Price is brisk and efficient.

You're a great movie goer, Sergeant Johnson.

You bet.

It's a great thing to sit back in an armchair and watch the world go by in front of you.

With your bad case, Sergeant Johnson, the people may get used to looking at the world from a sitting position.

I don't quite get you.

Then when they really do pass through it, they don't see anything.

Pity when you get home and people ask you what you've seen in England, you'll say, I saw a movie in Salisbury and I made a pilgrimage to Canterbury and saw another one.

I know that in Canterbury, I have to look out for a cathedral.

Do look out for it, just behind the movie theater, you can't miss it.

Take the sergeant down to Mrs. Foster.


Knowledge of our country, the love of its beauty.


Not heaven itself upon the past has power, but what has been has been and I have had my hour.



Although I've heard that Michael Powell chose, over a skirt-slashing Colpeper, to instead have him be The Glueman, his choice is, I think, serendipitous. The Glueman is not just the (superficially, as most post-modern critics mistake about him and about so many other characters in earlier films - about which more later) repressed sexual pervert Glueman, but he's also the Clueman. Yes, he's vaguely sinister, but he provides the glue that diverts the film's younger, war-preoccupied characters from their immediate concerns, and he suggests the clues that connect them to the heritage (some of us Yanks know the words of 'Land Of Hope And Glory' because England/Britain is undeniably, in many respects, our Mother Country) that has shaped them and made them who they are - and to the Civilization for which they're fighting.

Too many of today's critics obsess about the "Lesbian" farm woman whose character, in the 1940's, would have been ordinary and been regarded as being ordinary: a woman raised under the sterner discipline and mores of her day, with no-nonsense, no-b.s. values of virtue, obligation and hard work - and of getting to the point. It's postmodernists' affectation to automatically suspect doughty, matter-of-fact women characters - any eccentric women characters whom their postmodernist Miss Jean Brodie nonsense has bent them to suspect of fitting their screwy postmodernist (i.e., most often Marxisant, but often also Romantic) worldview - in earlier films of being "Lesbians." This woman is, consummately, a farmer who has to consider pragmatically what all farmers have always had to consider: how to smartly, efficiently work their land to its top yield against time and weather, pests and parasites, poachers and market conditions; there's nothing "Lesbian" about any of her singleminded agrarian pragmatism, or about her unremarkable - for her day - country ladies' sartorial choice, or even about her puffing a cigarette.

'A Canterbury Tale' isn't among the best of Powell & Pressburger's efforts; but it doesn't fall far short of their best. In a spot or two the plot plods, but then plodding was the pace of the Kentish countryside, so I think that it's only to our early third millennium sensibilities that it seems to plod. Seldom has black & white cinematography managed, as it manages here, to communicate through chiaroscuro the pilgrims' unease, and through the blessed splendor of sunlit, cloud-garlanded vistas of the Weald of Kent their respite.

As the Glueman strives to communicate the pace, sensibilities, and sensations of Chaucer's pilgrim's time, so too must we latter-day viewers accommodate our viewing of this film to the pace, sensibilities, and sensations of its period and setting: once we've done that - which demands of us no extraordinary effort - the legendary, enduring Powell & Pressburger magic works its spell.

From the outset I found Sergeant Sweet's unaffected acting well-suited to the storytelling. The Yanks whom Wartime Britons recall were probably more like Mike Roczinsky, yet among those "overpaid, overfed, oversexed, and over here" American "invaders," among all those "brown jobs," were young men quite like Sweet's Bob Johnson. Dennis Price's manner is a bit too aristocratic for his portrayal of a sergeant, but on the whole Price's thespian gifts help him to carry off his role very well. Sheila Sim gives a perfectly iconic portrayal of a young woman of her time: bereaved but not crushed; proud yet considerate; tender yet not mawkish; vulnerable yet capable. Eric Portman's Glueman is appropriately mysterious and mildly menacing and yet, in the ending we discover that he's all along been a benign agent of illumination, the neutral but never indifferent catalyst, the benevolent spur to the young people's sleuthing to know their present through their coming to touch their collective past; the Glueman is, if you think about his role in the narrative, rather God-like - or, if your prefer, rather Nature-like.

What's lovely about the dénouement here is that it enchants without indulging in sodden kitschiness, and indeed that it enchants in spite of of its scant kitschy elements. In the end the Glueman vanishes from the pilgrim's and our ken because he's accomplished his task of cluing and gluing the pilgrims to their past, to the mystical dimension of Being in their Own Time as that Being can only have come about by dint of their having touched their Past in their Present, which is the predicate of their harboring good hope for their Future. This message, to people whom wartime exigencies shifted brusquely about en masse as people had hitherto never shifted about, may have rung in 'A Canterbury Tale's' contemporary audiences a chord of sentimental longing and welcome reassurance.

This is a thoroughly English film best appreciated when one knows that Powell grew up in rural Kent and that he loved his home county's loveliness as only a native can and does love eternally his childhood home - and the verities it imparts early to him. In our present age of rapidly successive, plug-in and plug-out residential and professional transience - the first age of nigh-universal human rootlessness - 'A Canterbury Tale's' blessing is its acquainting us with our 1940's forebears' more permanent, more grounded sense of themselves and their place in the world and in time, a sense which they felt the war had put under threat and had hurled them and their world, willy-nilly, into unsettling uncertainty. It seems unlikely that we - our species - shall ever again know the quiet certainties, tranquility, and satisfaction of lifelong residence in, or near, our birthplaces. Until our time urgency meant for people something quite different from what urgency means for us. If people before our hyper-active, attention-deficited, more artificial time were not more "authentic," then they were certainly far less remote than we've become from Nature's cycles and temper.

'A Canterbury Tale's' charm is quiet, subtle, and in the end it's sensual, mystical, illuminating, and eternally dear. Pity that few have nowadays the time or the temper for such charm.