# Oh, because he became the senator because it was the regime changed…

# 

Oh, because he became the senator because it was the regime changed and suddenly he had the freedom and he was selected to the senate 1st time in the afterward historical and the 2 chambers. And then, and so he had to sit on the sessions in the cellar, and St. Ben was preparing and shooting the film. So he was kind of distracted, right? It's true that he slept in the senate most because the matters of the law and so was very boring to him. So he had some better energy on the set. But I wanted him to be more focussed, you know, I was screaming back in and begging that, you know, it's not fine. Although I think it's really interesting. You talked about the idea of multitasking. This film came 19 1990 and obviously you would have been working on it beforehand. But also in 1990, we saw the release of your extraordinary film, Europe and Europa. That's quite an amazing thing to juggle. Two films dealing, obviously not in exactly the same way. Well. I #um I didn't know that I didn't like that film. I read the snow books. It's been published. And suddenly managed filmmakers suddenly read very critical things about very well. And about his own work as well. He was very self-critical also, which he didn't show me, you know, like different conversations. So yeah, it was the film he didn't know. But... But still at the same time juggling those 2 films. It's quite amazing. Yeah, I don't remember exactly. I had the script practically read it before. because it was waiting, after I really wrote it, of course, and they made some changes. And Europe, I was very, like, playful, playful shopping for me. It was like, I came back after 7 years of exile and been able to shoot in Poland in the same time, you know, the Communist Colapa. Suddenly, you know, it was everything was the 1st few elections. And the people have been so confused that when I'm shooting, it was next to the party house, the White House of the Communists party. Next to that, it was the National New Zealand, and we created the set and the exterior of the Hitler Youth School. So, um, around of the past, the house was full of extras in the Nazi uniforms, and it various uniforms, and the people were stopping and saying, German came back. I think, I'm writing saying, this film is the last film that you received an official credit on an on-regarded film. How did your relationship develop over the years after this in terms of your own directing Korean history? Were you in constant contact and talking about each other's work? Yeah, we've been in constant contact, but I was not writing for him so much. Yeah, right. Maybe he was too shy to ask me or maybe he thought that I'm too often to experience now that he cannot set my fresh blood. But if you've been like asking me for the advice every time when he was doing something, and I was showing him what I did. And he was looking for that hero of our times more and more desperately, you know, because it was something he was the voice of the nation, really, of the best of the nation, in the communist times. And suddenly when the capitalism came and all that, you know, like complicated, very complicated situation with the transition and with the victims of the transition, and the paradox that working class was like digging their own grave, you know, with the capitalism, and the navy terror, of the, of my French filmmakers. I already was making movies in the West when I when it happened. But they were thinking, frankly, that we don't need any kind of the of the founding from the state. We don't need public founding. We are doing such a wonderful movies. And our audience loved our movies, so we can be like, you know, on the free market. not only survive, but make some money, which was, of course, not possible. This one or 2nd film could make the money, but in general, the new cinema from commercial cinema from America, from other, from other countries came, and it was big competition, with Polish films, and the Polish films, suddenly lost the main like subjects. They had to look for the new, new voice. And, uh, and of course, it was impossible to make a bishop legislative and not part of the financial movies in the small European countries where uh, where the audience is very limited and is generally limited by the language. So I was talking to them. No, we have to create something like the film institute and to make the founding, which is honest and which will not fall under the censorship against. Another censorship, capitalist, censorship, but it passes. But they didn't listen to me. And my dad didn't listen to me also, you know, in that moment. So I said, you know, guys, do what you think is the best. And I practically deserted from police enough for like 10 years or so. And the way the time is going on, and I'm sure you have questions. He do have some rubbing marks, so does anyone... Is there anyone else? We can pass the other man to... And then we're gonna... Thank you so much for today, #um it was absolutely moving a beautiful film. #um as a Po myself WHO has lived abroad for many years. I was wondering about how you experience in exile and outside of the country. Um, did you have a different perspective, the Ajivaida, of Poland, and did you find yourself sometimes romanticising it more than himself or, um, I guess I'm just wondering about whether you had a difference in how you viewed your whole country with VIDA, after your own experiences in exiles, what? Yes, so my, I think that my vision of, of the humanity was much darker than is and satinel Poland as well. But when I was writing for him, I, of course, was also interested in different point of view. But I try to give him the possibility to have his voice, to go through. And he had some, he made several things about Holocaust. And he, but he always had the problem to really catch the subject. I had impression that he didn't feel it completely. that he romantized it or something, you know? So I tried to be his guide and that. And I think he was grateful for that. He was open, was well, open, open-minded man, and very curious, constantly curious. And the difference between us and was also that I was, like, taking the inspiration mostly from the reality. And he was not seeing reality. He was a little afraid of the reality because reality was, didn't have the, didn't have the form, didn't have the shame. was shameless. So, and when we've been meeting, with the film group X with other filmmakers and telling about our projects or about what we just, you know, experience or so. So I was always, you know, I've been in the tramway, I've seen that and that situation. And then I said, oh, Ix told me fantastic story. And he needed the 1st daughter, it could be, you know, to me, to get it. He needed essence. He was looking for the essence. I was looking for the cow smart. He was looking for this. So it was a bit difficult, but the film was attacked then. It was a president at Canfield Festival, to the great applause. And after it was attacked by French film critics, as being Captain Semitic, which I found very... But I had that mark on him, but he's the kind of Semitic field, because he's polished. And then Prom Islam, one of his greatest film, didn't get Oscar because he was, when he was sad, that he's, you know, probably with this episode. They've been mixing Germans and Jews in the study. So anyway. And this was very, you know, for example, the last scene was described as an negationism. that the last scene said that it, that Gashan doesn't even exist. Yeah, thank you. You can crystal this, right? But it was very serious, you know, somehow it's very, it's really made the French career of that film much weaker that it should be. When you track Mark over there. and then we bring another monkey here.. Thank you. Hello? Okay, I know. Well, we'll talk some more tomorrow. Aneshka, I have a question, actually, exactly. I didn't write about this film in my book, which is also not in the bookshop, but hopefully you can come in by tomorrow. Yes, it's Agneshka Fantastic. Everybody's called Agnushka. Yes, another Anishka. No, but I did want to ask about servant's name. That after me, it became quite popular. So, and, you know, for the women, koemaker is the best name, and yes, Baghdad. Yes, exactly. Anyway, what? I wrote the book about my cinema. Yes, which was going to be in the bookshop. We have my bookshop today, but somehow I didn't make it, but you can hopefully come and maybe get it tomorrow in the next week. Yeah, so you'll see it up in your free tomorrow. But my question is exactly about the ending, because I was going to ask you, and it's not, it isn't in the book because I bracketed this whole phone because it wasn't part of the story I was telling, although I did write a lot about your father in the book. So the ending, is this how you wrote it? Because there was a huge controversy about the ending in France, as you mentioned, but also... elsewhere. With the ending of this unhappy movement. Yeah, it means it was... The ending was prepared, like, in more, different way, and it was inspired by 2 things. Well, it was the fairy tale. Kachak was telling to the children about that time in Ghetto. that he was studying before then, and then putting them to sleep, was telling, you know, one day, why we don't leave everything and go out through the field, to the store of the sun, and no one will stop us and so on. It was that kind of, you know, of the story. And I wrote in the initial script that he's studying that paradail in the inside of the of the frame, of the, inside of the frame. And it was also another scene which I written. It's when you use that, that young boy who survived, that he was sent to the in concentration camp that come, my dialect, and is meeting the one of the teachers, you know, never lived there in my dialect. And he asked him if he had something but happened to contact and the children. And when he starts to say that they've been killed, that got the car and one man say, no, no, it's not true. They escaped. And it was like the legend is, you know, the legend starts to buy, that is, that the people couldn't accept that that and they somehow went to the legend, like the Polish soldiers, you know, in the September 39, who was killed in the stuff, that was in the 1st place when the war started. And the legend was that they, like, escaped, and was well done. It means that kind of, it was like combination of the scenes which prepared that last image. But probably by that, probably he was right. He found that it's too much, that it's not in it, that just feels the last sin, like that. But apparently he wasn't right because some Germanists found it. Well, good for that, then. Anishka, #um J, yeah, thank you your work. I saw this film and it came out. The beginning in 1919. I've seen it again now. I feel as moved when I saw it the first but. I wanted to thank you as well. My name is Pjot Cossack. Thank you for letting allowing me to understand more of where my family came from. My father was born in Eastern Poland, was deported to Siberia, was released, joined Leander Army, and then after a journey through Persia, Afghanistan, India, South Africa, coming to England. Oh, he almost sank in the mid-Atlantic when his ship was sunk by a German Italian submarine, but he reached England. But your films have allowed me to understand that part of my. My family story and I want to thank you for that. My question is for you. Looking back over the last 36 years, uh, and the increase in authoritarianism in the wars and the huge display displacement we are witnessing. Would you have, would you, if you were writing quarter chef today, would you write anything, would you change it in any way? Would you write anything different? That my question. Part of the orphans, he was, he was raising in the, in the, the institutions. Part of them before the 2nd World War emigrated the Palestine. and started to create some kind of the, you know, life, people, all of the testing boxes and so on. His brothers as collaborator, Steph, visited them there and decided that he will stay there with them in Palestine. The atmosphere in Poland became very, very, very friendly, very like at the 70s, some programmes, but there was a lot of the executions that, for example, it was known as spouses, then Jewish students couldn't attend some, the partners like medicine or Rao or others. And it was in the ghetto, in the classrooms, that the Jews had probably like in the buses in the US, that the blacks has to be on the side. So it was just at the other side, and they had to go. to stand sometimes they didn't have right. So it was that kind of the atmosphere. And they invited. They wanted very much that contact will join them and he was visiting and maybe he was thinking about it and he wrote something in his diary in his letter. which stayed with me since I read it and was written, I cannot live in Palestine. I cannot look at the joy of Jewish child and see the misery of Arab one. So that was his, that was his philosophy, I think, and his way of seeing the things. It becomes very relevant now, right? So I was asking myself quite often in my life, what Kochak can do and say in that moment? And um, I think that his moral. Honest, it was so deep that he will never do something against another. Sort of humans. I don't know if it's clear what I'm. Which is why I think that this help is a pertinent, is because of his personality because of his character and because of his principles, his universality. It's not one conflict, it's all conflict, it's not one prejudice, it's all prejudices. It's an intolerance of drawing. drawing a line. Yeah, but also it was some kind of declairvoyance. He knew that it's impossible to build the new world without, you know, destroying a system. I think we got time, I've been signal for one last question, someone's going to mind. My question is on censorship. I was very interested to hear what you had to say at the time that poor check was being made and the political system was changing. and talking about ensuring that the Polish film industry was in a position that it could resist future censorship. You know, you're talking about Man of Marvel, and we know about the difficulties that the buyer had with the sensors, we did Man of Marvel and other films. We also know a recent film of yours, you know, Grenita. You came under a lot of pressure and difficult political pressure. And so I wonder, do you think the Polish film industry today is positioned to be able to resist, new political pressure, um, in the modern, uh, post state. 

Contentious. Itholosis. I don't dream about that, for example. Yeah, I think it's possible and difficult. But I think, you know, we all be be became too comfortable. That, you know, if we have on steak, not on the filmmakers, but also filmmakers, and steak our comfort. Or our values, the comfort goes up. And by then, we want that comfort and we don't think about it. But that is the place we need the water together. I think that, and I think I believe that the cinema can make the difference. It's not depends. That's what we get sometimes. But I think that the filmmakers are resigning, deserting, that kind of the of the road, they prefer to tend to have nostalgia. I like a lot of European films. Of last year's and some Polish films as well. But they found that most of that is really nostalgic. It's more, it's not fighting for the things which are risking you, comproversial, deeply important, dangerous, challenging. Uh, documentaries are much better, I think, definitely are much more trying to, you know, cut into the, the, the, the myth of the, of the reality. Okay. So it's possible, but it's, it's in some carriage. Before we finish, just a few things, um, we heard from Anushka up to Anushka too, Anushka Petrovska, #um a bag her book which is the cinema of Anushka Holland. #ah on your way out, you'll be giving one of these flyers, which you can get plenty scan code, um, which you can go to the VFI bookshop, uh, when the book comes in, that's the publisher, not the VFI bookshop. It is going to be in the next few days, definitely. And it's no view of the entirety of us to rip, but also, there are many things in which people will not have seen before, such as your own personal poker wildfire. Nice. many other things. So that will definitely be a bookshop in the next few days. Tomorrow night, some of you may already have tickets for the BFI IMAX to see, and yesterday's latest film, Friends, Bet the Life of Franz Kaffir, which I've been lucky enough to see, and it's a witty, beautiful, absolutely visually dangling, piece of filmmaking. They may be returned tomorrow, so if you don't have a ticket and you want to go, I would strongly recommend calling up, and Yashka will be present for all the screening of that film. If you can't get into that, there is a screening of it on the 21st of March at the Sinulumier, that you will be able to go to, and there are still tickets for that. The humungous behemoth that is the Andre Vida season that is continuing here at the BFI and also at the ICA over the course of the next few weeks. And I would draw your attention to rough treatment. Another film that AES was involved in is in collaboration with Andre Biden, that screening here with an introduction next week, but there are many, many other films to see in this festival. Thank you for Polish Film Institute, to Kino Chekka, to the BFI, but most of all, can you please join me in thanking Angus Johor?