# . In this time, this will be the first of introductions. I'm Mandy…

# 

. In this time, this will be the first of introductions. I'm Mandy Merk. I'm going to welcome Laura Muley, who really doesn't need an introduction at this point. And the Zelba Pollock, who is an equally distinguished, and I mean that quite literally, art historian and historian in the film, and we're going to have them in a a discussion together, and then we're going to have some time for you to ask questions and make comments. Rosa, Laura. How would you like to Okay, right... We've talked a little bit about the order in which you want to do this, and the idea was that we'd start with the film you've just seen, which is later than the first film, and perhaps start with Griselda's own experience of seeing as an art historian, the Whitechapel exhibition at which this film, the second film was actually shown. Is that correct? Yeah. Yeah. No, it's, after. Oh, that's very interesting. Was there any supplementary moving image material at the White Chapel? That's very interesting. I hadn't understood that. Over to you, please. Okay, thank you so much for inviting me. It's a terrific honour as always, to talk with the absolutely remarkable and wonderful Laura Muli, who stimulates us and I just wish I could talk with the kind of elegance coherent, and every time you say something, just hit the points. I'm going to try and hit the points and imitations of that it's great to be with Mandy, who we worked together and collected way back in these decades of the 70s and ' 80s. So the experience of seeing the exhibition, I saw it with Rosie Parker, Rog Rebecca Parker, and we had spent the '70s in a women's artist history collective, trying to make sense of the extraordinary phenomenon of the fact that everywhere you look, you found women artists in every period, and in the 20th century, almost under every tree, at the same time, everybody was telling you that they never were any artists, and they were were never shown. So it's not that we had to rediscover them. We had to explain how could it be that you could write them out of their own history, particularly in the 20th century. So this is a cruc thing. So this was our great revelation, took a lot of chocolate and a lot of agonised thinking to work out. Why were we writing a book called Orbistresses that was different from what was coming out of the United States, which was loads and loads of books, starting with Linda Ochland's why there Be no great women artists? We said, there have always been great women artists. It's why men have told us that they weren't there is more interesting than that one. 

And then we got lots of hidden heritages and all the rest of it. So the experience of going to see this exhibition was just heavenly, because we walked in and said, here are are two people who have taken on this project that has got no shape yet, that we are all making some sense of it, which is how will we engage with the work of women who are artists?, who are part of all the modelist new movements, who are there co creating, as I've written, the places co creating Modernism, in all these revolutionary little coteries and different groups, and all over them. How could you present that? Now, it's one thing to write a book, making an argument and hammering away as I doing now, etcera. But to actually have the experience of going into that exhibition and seeing this construction of two individual artists who are going to get a complete sense of what their project was as an artist, but also to be written about in the way. Now, when we watch the film, obviously, the I was going to say, that the voiceover makes it much sort of sort of more direct in a way. But if you imagine reading that on the walls or getting that sort of sense, there's a vocabulary there, which is, you know political, you have to situate them in a political framework, a historical framework, you talk about the avant garde, they participate in a revolutionary movement, they are finding aesthetic forms for articulating a political sense of the working women of Mexico, the struggle of working class, men and women throughout the society, and this moment in the fact that's what I found in the exhibition most, which was someone has given us an exhibition reform for a set of questions, propositions, investigations,igations, which are not telling us, this is what the artist felt and thought and did, even though, of course, the subjectivity, the question of the body, and the subjectivity, is crucial. So I think that's a very remarkable thing about the exhibition, and I think it's there in the film as well. How can you avoid, what we saw first off, heroization, or making them victims, at the same time as acknowledging struggle, difficulty, and a project that has to find its own form. So, Laura, that's a pretty obvious entrreee to you, and also back to the issues that you introduced in Amy, about the avoidance of a certain kind of then pervasive individualisation of exceptional women. You have to remember, this is that the heyday of Miss Magazine, where exceptional women were and each month presented on the cover as role models. And the question was, for me, for instance, whether they were intimidating rather than inspiring. Yeah. So herosization, Amy, Fridaina, what would you say? Certainly we were trying to pick up the stories of remarkable women. But and I recognised so much of Gelda or what she said, and of course, yours and Rosiscus Parker's old mistresses was a pioneering and iconic work, but it's very interesting to hear you say, put it actually in its intellectual context that it was saying, why don't we know. about women artists? And that, in a sense, was just to begin at the beginning, and personally, Peters in my reaction to arriving in Mexico. And of course, we did know, not well, but we were educated enough to know about the Muanis movement, to know about Diego Rivera Ozco, and the very important painters of the time, but we didn't know about Frida Caren. Yes. And and so that, in a sense, was just to illustrate the point that you're making. And we were so struck by the difference in size and scale between her workers are painted, because you painted very very often in beds, so she is painting quite small works. And also, Tina Modoi's photographs are quite small. So there was this difference of scale, and different kinds of scale there. It's difficult to explain quite how the ideas came together. Butlshvit, I think, was putting things together and seeing how they worked. So almost a kind of experimental gleaning out of the material and then making a montage out of the gleaning. But you're very, at this point, at any rate, or speaking for myself, I was, I was very interested in the stories that being at quite a sense, and I just wondered if you you both might react to this, there'd been a sense that the artist's individual story, the biographical details, were irrelevant to assessing the value of the work itself, and certainly quite some time, I think, the idea that a person's own history was relevant to their work had been under erasure. Whereas for me, bringing back that sense of the story and the individual trajectory, and how that individual trajectory had happened to produce what it did. And there was a phrase that we picked up that became very important in in the catalogue, and I'm not to be able to find it now....orted. It was about the relationship between necessity and history. So we were thinking about, in what way were individual lives, both produced by the accidents of individual stories, but also about overwhelming necessities that came, as a more Marxists sense from the exterior world. No, I mean, I just brought the catalogue with me because this is also a very precious document because because it's transforming something of the way that we experienced the film into a book form. And what you say about life, it's this very, you know, narrow bridge that you can easily fall off in the sense when you study issues surround the question of women, because you're trying to situate them in conditions of life, the kind of negotiating that are distinct because of a patriarchal society. At the same time, you've got a model of what the artist is meant to do. So you've got kind of Van Goch, the great suffering artist. And the danger is, of course, we create a pathos of the suffering woman. And I thought, both of both films are are negotiating that very brilliantly in a way that was when we were also looking to a language from psychoanalysis or some insights from psychoanalysis, as well as the expanded social history. So you've going to have a political account that you have revolutionary women who are really taking a struggle, but they're also having to find a language to situate themselves as women in a struggle that doesn't acknowledge what you also brought up, which is, in sense of the body, and the sort of the pathos of life, the things I'm very interested in traumuma, and different ways in which you capture. So I think that's the balance you're trying to get in this film, which is to not reduce somebody to their biography, but to give the biOS a kind of place in the political and the political in the bias that then allows you to see the works. And of course, if you can imagine what it was like seeing this film and seeing that work, if you may be seen, if you were lucky, you know, in Jangreas the obstacle race, or Linda Achlins, or one of these hidden from H history books, you'd seen a little kind of black and white. We didn't get slides. There wasn't the internet to look up immediately and get nice high resolution, things, you know, I literally had bought 15 slides from the exhibition in Baltimore that had old women, you know, old art, old mistresses in it. This was very difficult, but to see it in the film, the way you'd filmed it, it is so shocking to see her paintings. They do not sit easily into the sort of, you know What do you mean?. 




Well, they's so, they're painted in an absolutely present way. There's a very particular physical force to them in the way that they're painted. But also because she's always looking at you. She's looking at herself, looking at you There's a particular force. And then there are all these other creatures who at you as well and then there's this situation that. It isn't surrealism isn't sufficient to explode this, you know shock, I truly. I think it's a kind of a combination and I think that's what the exhibition. This might be a moment for me to say, we took a couple of decisions. One was not to have an intrusive camera. It was very difficult to restrain oneself from having a camera that examined the image and looked at the details, and especially, obviously, in the Frida Carlo paintings, but also in some of the Tina Mod photocosts, they in some ways invite a closer look. But we decided to stand back from that. and the photography of the individual works was very difficult. And this is just a moment when I can give credit where credit is due to Julian Rothenstein who designed those framings and also designed the kind of double panels where you see the two words. He designed the typography and the whole presentation of the film has Julian's design design skills very much where do you remember him? Yeah, how can I forget? Julian Renstein was the art director of screen, which I worked for quite a while, and he was the first person who did our layouts on our covers and had designed the previous generation of Scream, which Griselda was a part of, was your article is that Isue of Scream, when Mark Nash was the editor. So he'd gone through different formats and all sorts of things with us for quite a long time. Anyway, he was an absolute to Crant part of coming into being a the film. So, given this issue of trying to avoid either an over kind of there's a great line in pencils layer, where where you talk about the Amazons, and a popular idea of the Amazons is these kind of incredibly hoic figures who simply represented female transcendents and some, perhaps even at that instance in the 70s, people thought they literally had theip into Athens and conquered it from time to time, you? No, man dear, I don't see. Well, pretty much, there was I got thrown out of a feminist youth discussion for saying, the Amazon represented Greek male fears of women, not actual one breasted troops. Although, subsequently, we have found some grapes of women who did have arrows, but not single breasts, and as far as we know, were not living together in lesbian communians, as people imagined in the '70s. 




Okay, just saying, it was a popular notion of a literal heroic figure, and people were looking for literal heroic figures. On the other hand, you don't want to bathe your subjects in an equally false victimhood. Yeah. Now, negotiating that in different ways, is really tricky. And one of the things that comes up for me is this the psychodynamics imputed to these people in both films, where you do go in close in a kind of analytical way, yeah? You go into the whole question in Amy. of whether or not she experiences of the desire to do daring things, and she can and it's far more pleasurable than being brought brought back to Earth than there's a couple of kind of crash figures in Amy.. Amy did crash, by the way, but she crashed in World War II, because her plane was shot down, probably by accident, because she gave the wrong call signal over the Thames, and it could have been friendly fire, very sadly. In World War II, women flyers delivered planes to different parts of Britain. They didn't fly in combat. They were not allowed to train to be pilots, so they were required simply to be the delivery. Yeah, they were They fried planes, at different airports for men to then flying. He decided to restrict our portrait, our Amy portrait, rel to these two moments of transition. And this is partly because we were quite invested aesthetically and aesthetically and politically, to thinking of about gender complexities of, on the one hand, Amy trying, as it were,, to lead the conventional life as if a young woman working in Peter Jones or wherever. And I always imagined, though, that she might be one of the young women who'd been as a girl, someone who had identified with male heroes because there weren't enough women heroines to identify with. So many, many little girls grew up with transgender identifications, whether it was from Greek myths or whether it was from 19th century adventure stories, 20th century cinema, there was a way in which female identification often caused tender buns. So that was my imagination of Amy, and that then she kind of achieved it by becoming the solo flyerer. But then, as coming back to earth, as she was saying, she then had to regender her. She was then forcibly regendered out of being an engineerer and having a career into being a celebrity and a spectacle. And you wrote about this, because I think we should say, Belda wrote a very useful essay on the Amy film for the script, the book of Laura Marvey and Peter Wallen's script, that was edited by Oliver Fuke, who I think somewhere around here. or you can put your hand up. It's a really remarkable book. There are essays on all these films and this scene, and Grielda Di. So perhaps we could just hear a little bit of. So would you like to talk about the psychedodynamics of the while back? Well, the thing is, I didn't know what a phobat was, and I didn't I took a long while to sort of what do we get that one. What I'd like to say about the Amy film, which comes across to me is a very, very beyond it so project, which is that in the 20th century, I mean, for instance, when I was five, I asked my neighbour said, "What are you going to do? And I said, I go to school, and then I go to university. And she looked at me, this is in South Africa, and she said, "What do you do, university?" I said, " I have no idea, it's probably more school. But I had had impluded on me because my mother went to university that that's what women did. But then, of course, they didn't get anything else. You could get to university, but there weren't jobs, there wasn't. So I think this is a really crucial thing about me, you know, Emma Johnson went to Sheffield. 




She went to a very good stuffsts university, ends up in a shop, right? And so the way that you come across that sense of the shift from, you know, romance and waiting to be married and being abandoned by this man or not whatever, et cetera. And then the sense of getting something, but at the point at which Amy Johnson achieves this extraordinary thing of travelling, phyobatically sort of defying gravity and doing this extraordinary journey of all by herself with some complicated procedure for going to all those places and landing all those right across the the shape of the British Empire and arriving there. But then coming back, and all you get is a certain kind of cheap fame, you know, you become an icon rather than an opening into being an engineer, you know, the satisfaction of doing something for a long time, designing her own playing, correcting the faults of it, you know, doing it, even just doing it at the weekends for fun. She's caught up in something which absolutely is the tragedy, I think, of a generation of women in the 20th century, because all of that momentum led to going to university getting these qualifications, but it took the women's movement that that this film comes out of to say that is not enough. The mothers of most of the feminists in the women's movement were housewivesives, right, who had the abilities to have been everything that they had. And so I think that's a kind of what I find so interesting about the film is it's made at that point at which that trauma, that agony, that tragedy, of frustration of modernity that says, yes, you can have an education, but you can't be anything else. Really then exploded in a different kind of feminism which required this analysis of what the sort of the image culture, what the kind of overall culture is. Laura' signalling that we need to go to Q&A because we're very shortly going to be chucked out of here. Okay. I need to have the microphone. There's a question on the far right there. Can we pass the mic quickly down? And can you be as loud as possible, thanks? Yes, I hope this is hard enough. I'm kind of a quiet person. Well, first of all, thank you so much. I really appreciate it. I come at this from a film perspective. I did film studies, critical studies, and went on to become a writer. I wanted to ask because it came up tonight, and it's something I've always wondered since my early studies in film. When we talk about women's studies studies in film or women in film, psychoanalysis comes up a lot. And I was always curious about that, particularly visual pleasure and narrative cinema. It's always analysing through the lens of psychoalysis and I apologise if this is perhaps a simple answer in a longwinded question. But I wondered, was psychoanalysis such a major topic of studies in the period when you were doing these works? Or, you know, why, for example, why not good through the lens of like social constructivism or other theories or philosophies? And I sometimes wondered, and that's why I wanted to ask tonight, is it because psychoanalysis and Freud is so firmly rooted in patriarchal ideology and castration complex, that by using that patriarchriarchal language, you are using the words and codes that they've understand and accepted to further validate and inform your argument to make it, so to speak, more ironclad versus other philosophies. I'm not quite sure if this is the appropriate to go into this, but thank you for asking. And I think the point comes very much in your own answer at the end, in that a feminist used Freud to analyse patriarchal society, and Freud and feminism were mutually interested in the construction of sexuality and general gender. and we extended it to questions of representation. But I think it might be better to just stay with the topic, if possible, and see see if anyone has anything to say about... Yes, Honour.. Maybe we could put you our choice.. Hi, Lauren. Can you say something about your choice of the music music in A? I think this has been one of your mostardian films where different sounds enter into kind of battle of songs. Bardia. So, for example, we have feminist and improvising group, X-Rays specs, and Poly Dine, of Troupe deini, versus the kind of all-consuming patriarchal kind of song that it entered Jack's something in this orchestra.. And this sort of patriarchal embrace. If you just talk a bit about your selection of music and the kind of fight that's going on between the things. We used the feminist improvising group, which was a remarkable group of women, musicians, and the beautiful voice you hear there is Sally Potter, who's now known much more as an eminent f director. And I think, M, was you who introduced Peter and me to. I think I'm going to take all the credit for this. I used to go.. Lindsay Cooper, who sadly died about 10 years ago, was the great bassoonist you would hearparping away, as she called it,parping under the Peter Jones, under the Peter Jones images. It was my girlfriend. She was doing all this interesting work. I said to Sue Clayton, who's worked with Elora, on another book about this period. "You should use her for your new film Song of the shirt.s, and then things just got going. At this point, Lindsay left a very interesting band called Henry Cow, formed this new band called The Feminist Improvisation Group, with Sally, and several and some guitarists whose names I don't entirely remember, but they're very audible. But what Pete and I were looking for was a sound that didn't have didn't have immediate cultural connotations and had something magical, almost outside speech about it, because with Sally's voice, you don't hear words. So it belongs to the c of B. K about it. Whereas the other music is very important in terms of its absolute historical specificity. And the idea was that if we saw Amy today, whatever, what's the the date today? 2025. 2025 years ago. I was Anyway, whatever the date, it's Tuesday the something or other. that if we saw the film now at so many years later, the Polestonian X rays specs sound would be as aocative of 1980 as Jack Hilton and Amy Wonderful. Amy were of 1930. So we wanted to use the music to inscribe those two moments of history and bring out further the 1930, 1988, 50 year juxtaposition. And And I hope it does actually have that intense resonance of its moment. And I really love the way in which Polarian's voice under Jack Norman's voice could of well, contrasted with each other, simply. Any questions further? Two. Pres name. Okay. We'll take the fore right and then the middle row, please. Yeah, that might be the last. And I think these might be the last two the end. What it is called. it there. It's someone there to tell us. five minutes.. five minutes.. It'll be a quick question. Thank you so much. This was amazing. I love both films, and the discussion has been amazing. I guess I was just thinking throughout the freedom film, when you said that you weren't familiar with her when you went to Mexico, and now she is so everybody's seems to know her and I guess her figure maybe has taken on a different life and her art and her work and her life. So I guess what what do you think about that, watching this film almost 50 years later, I'm bad at math, so maybe more or less. Yeah. I mean mean to be completely honest about this, I find it really hard to stand the way that Feder's images have been taken out of that context of little bits, as it were. put on handbags or electric magnetics. I can't I find it very hard about. Peter was early on with an ethic called Freedom Mania, which was, again. kind of bemoaning this. But you know, popular culture is popular culture. What can you do? And you can't necessarily fight against it. But what was so fortunate for us is that we, Peter and I, I'm sure Peter had how we to call it... Wonder alone in not knowing about her and her work. which meant it was possible to put together the White chapel at exhibition on a shoestring.. It's those people to agree to lend their pictures. Yes, yeah, yeah.as nowads, nowadays, if you think about Water Friedrida Caro exhibition feels like that what it's involved, we were very fortunate that we were that she wasn't there at that time. Okay, sir? Yeah. Yeah, thank you. I didn't see the show I was a little bit too young, but I love the feel, but I think the actual catalogue is one of the best catalogues., the catalogue is the best art history catalogue ever produced. And what I love about it is, obviously at that particular moment, you've got a kind of social disery of art which hasn't led his heart, you've been a furnished art history really like you were working through. But you do not self consciously wear that in the catalogue. It's like, you're not saying this is what we're doing on a theoretical level. You just do it, and you bring out the interest in the body that comes out of second wave feminism and sort of married out with this social history of art based upon a Marist art history to the revolution. And to read it as an artist storyorian, it was an absolute revelation. So my question is this, do you think you, because you're in Peter, you weren't really high historians, weren You both wrote about our history hard-time basis but do you think it was the kind of outsider status that allowed you to come into the subject of our history and produced something which was absolutely revelating? Well, I can't but be very, very very moved and tuckched by your comment. Thank you very much. I do think it was very much outside the stages. I'm slightly reluctant to say this because I knew people were will say, I'm just being self denigratory. Is that the word? But it's actually true that, well, I think Peter and very much in particular, could turn his hand to anything. He was a writer, he could be a journalist, he could be a poet, he could be an essist, he could write short stories. And he was he was that kind of writer who was, in a sense, professionalional, but also dilettante. And we both had that very much in common. We liked picking things up. I mean, that's why we started to make films to begin with. It was an opportunity that arose, and we threw ourselves into it, we grasped it. But we were we had an essistic mentality. We didn't take ourselves professionally seriously. If we had, I don't think we would either have become film makers or had the temerity to suggest pushing on a Frida Carlo Tina Madotti exhibition at the White Chapel Gallery in 19802 anymore. Can I just say one thing about that, just to speak to this question. This question of art history. I mean, the thing is, what is. I'm not, no, no. the 50s, I mean, the 60s, this is coming out of the 60s. But if you think you've got god art fields, you've got these different kinds of modelsels of people. You've got a situationism, you've got so it's not Marx's art history. That comes out of situation comes out of what happened in 68 or the 60th in France, right? You've got this going back back to your question about psychonalysis. There's this huge moment of theoretical, political and social movements that are interacting and conversing that have a certain centre in Paris, but also move across with come across the child to London through screen and to the se, and that kind of en investigation which you're looking at in that film, in this catalogue, is exactly what many of us were trying to do, which was to get away from the language of art history, great artists, movements, nations, period style, and say, what are they doing? Why are they doing it? Why are they doing it now? How do they intersect with more more complex dimensions of culture? And I think that's why it's a model because that's what I was saying before, you're giving a vocabulary to interrogate a moment, a historical moment, the question of the avant-garde, which is crucialial for Peter's writing, which is, we've lost that sense of this peculiar organisation of intellectuals, and musicians and artists and filmmakers, etcera, at a point of of crisis, political crisis and economic crisis, who come together and produce something which we call revolutionary, and I think that's what you're picking up on is what happened in Mexico that isn't part of this Western story of Russia and Germany and America, and how extraordinary it is to bring them in and then realise, you know, like C de Carlo walked down the streets of Paris at one point. She'd had a show in Paris, Diego, you know, the Andrew Breton said. This is a different way of putting it together that's not carved up by saying, I'm a specialist in Mexic, I'm a specialist in a French art, I'm a special in. And I think that is why this film is so important in the catalogue. You're quite right. It explodes those traditions because it introduces this other way of thinking that's going to draw on semiotic psychanalysis, whether it's social history, and feminism is being forged in that because you can't say there was a feminist art history. We have to make it. But one thing I do object to is continually talking about Frida and Tina. We are not talking about Andre and Pablo and Andre. We never do. Because if we said that, you wouldn't know what you were talking about. But they aren't Frida Carlo, Tina Madotti, that's their names. I just want to say one last thing because I think you've been a very important point, Zelda, which is when I say that Peter and I had picked up on what was happening, it was really because our community was interested in these issues that you've just laid out. So it was always within the conferenceural world, political world that we were operating in. And without that, I don't think anything would have happened. We' told that a stop now. Okay, well, there's this one guy who's been waiting patient is Mike. Please, you go. Thank you. This is really a comment for Griselda. You refer to the women being f ferry pilots with both in Britain and in the Commonwealth and in the USA, in the Sec World War. But of course, in the Soviet Union, women weren't fightopilotsots and bomopilots and gallants and so on, and so there wasn't no barrier. But my other question was, you rightly mention in the film the influence of Edward Weston on Tim Medocci and to some extent with Diego Rivera and Fricrida Carlo. But what about the other? influence? How did Tina Madossi influence Sacred Western? Oh, that's a very good question. She certainly had a big influence in her in her photographic community in Mexico, I didn't know whether she influenced Western. I'm not sure. Peter would know. Okay, you know who was I? No, we have to wind up. Well, let's find out. I mean, the field is open to us all. The whole coin