# Is a luminary in my life and in yours too, I expect. And I'm proud…

# 

Is a luminary in my life and in yours too, I expect. And I'm proud and happy that she's invited me to introduce the riddles of the Sphinx the 1977 film. It takes us on a journey through myth to the pressing real life conditions of women and mothers. Then, as now. These Wan and she are legendary figures of the Iang Guard, but they' highly original approach to filmmaking and the uses of mythology. Taking the cue from Freud, and from poets such as HD, who had been in a brief analysis with Freud in London, as you know, they excavated ancient stories about the Amazons in their first film, Pentheroda, and Odipus and the Sphinx in riddles. In order to illuminate contemporary imagery and its symbolic kinterland, an uncover the ways, the visual surface of Madnity impinges on the unconscious. The film's probe with this psychic reality, and seek to dismantle its structures so that the foundation can be realigned. It is a contestatory method, not reparative, though in some ways its aims are. As a voice, you really say, it is only true the details that we can reform, that we can return to history in the knowledge to be unconscious is all that slashing through. This in French for the youngian model of advert types and collective unconscious, is asked for something far deeper and more radical, but the reshaping of the unconscious. As a result of this high a, the films do not only investigate really, but its films do not only investigate the visual field, but they also enact a distinctive, dissident way of looking in their cinematic technique. I remember when I first met Peter Wallen at the ICA during the panel section session. We were talking about these questions. It was a time when controversy was keen among feminists alert from it. But his particularly theory of castration and penis and be. And Peter said quietly, but firmly, that he could see no other way to approach the dilemmas we were facing without going through the theory of the complex. It is indeed the crux rooted in the double authorship of the film, Among the many riddles or the questions, what is sexual difference? What is the attachment to the mother? What is the attachment of the mother to her daughter, and again of her daughter to her mother? And Laura, M, has more at stake as she feels her way out of the constraints of the classic eatable theory. The sphinx can act as the mouthpiece, because her gender is on inconsistent. As Laura mentions towards the start of the film, the Sphinx is masculine in gender in Greek and in French. There in Gustav Moro painting, included in the film, you'll see it, shows Ed ofus standing close between her breasts as he questions her, reversing their mythic roles in a manner that the film continues. The Sphinx embodies the quandaries, which the filmmakers and their fictional characters are struggling. with. In the story that Edipus at the start of the film, Laura is seen reading from a script with a wedding mug decorated with trended hearts on her right, while she twists a pen between her fingers, a fidgety gesture, unsettling her outward demeanour of poise and decisiveness. It is this doubleness. In this doubleness, she embodies the essence of Riddling. It is compos Sorry. It is composite, self contradictory, a riddle misdirect solicor, to an inside truth or answer. In relation to film, and art of appearances, an art of outward delusion, this state of the riddle repays attention. And when situated Saagonistically, it reflects Freud's call to attend to uttered signs, slips of the tongue, in order to reach interior. Interior secrets. The film pushes towards a portrait of interiority by scanning their intensely exterior signs of its characters surroundings, belongings, routines, expressions. with hands. As the script asks, how much as the script asks, how much have we internalised? Our oppression. The Sphinx is a guardian figure who bars away and kills those who cannot answer her riddle. She has a human head, the body of a lan, and the tail of a servant, and sometimes wings. In her composite monstrosity, she defies reason. And on the imaginary plane, she resembles demons who inhabit the invisible region below. The scorpion, demons of the Babylonian epic, sorry, the scorpion demons of the Babylonian underworld, the Jin of the Islamic law, and the Christian devil and his minions. But the other hybrids, that like other hybrids, the chimaera, the Manator, Medusa, she is a singular phenomenon, a one off without progeny, perhaps sterile. In the symbolic lexicon fried in the surrealists who followed him, woman with a capital W is the great mystery. What do women want?" Freud asked, and did not answer. If she is also the being who, quote, " casts the greatest light and darkness into our dreams, the surrealists declared, quoting Budau, "She is a, the deadly, "the deadly negation of proper womanly fertility. She generates only enigmas. Enigmas which only lead to more bad womanment. Her name derives from the Greek, meaning to throttle, to strangle, as inspector. With her questions, she ties up in knots, those who are come to her. But as Iate a wind, points out in an oracular scene in her novel, 1969., the Left hand of darkness.Truth arises not from the right answer to the wrong question, but from the right question. The film essay riddles of the Sphinx, sets out to put the right questions. In this film, Amald B drawn the myth to set questions about real life conditions, of mothers, of the family, of women at work, and at home, in home. They search to set the riddles to clarify their terms, and they do not follow the solutions in the strictous way of. In the trickerious way of the playground, the big playground, game of riddles, but leave the solutions open, unresolved. Riddles of the Sphinx is a c essay or text film. with 13 episodes and seven chapters. It juxtaposes readings from mythology, psychology, and anthology. It bracketed around a story, a long story, about Louise and her daughter, Anna, in their spacious and well equipped home. Louise's alienation and anxieties as a mother, her leaving Anna to nursery when she goes up to work. This fictive documentary pays homage to Jean Gudar, and also belongs in the strong activist tradition of the British television, of Tell D Cathy come home, for example. The vicer nrating and commenting and reading runs under the pulsing electronic soundtrack. so that sometimes the Ver needs to listen very hard, to follow, and at times cannot do so. This is an effect of riddling, of the intrinsic misdirection of the form, the theme indecipherable, the theme of indecipherability, because because enigmas multiply as the camera moves in closer and closer to the mott surface that sinks at Giza. In Egypt and scans the full blow up magnificence of the archive photography, archive photograph. I tell you in his blow up film was made in London a decade earlier, and likewise questions what lies beneath cinematic appearance." Later, the camera revolves in sustained, smooth circular pans from a fixed tripod. Around the spaces in which Louise finds herself. This impersonal choreography of the machine, disorients the viewer in relation to the spaces the camera is recording, the camera is not standing in for anyone. We are not seeing the Louise's eyes, nor are we in any way, peeping Toms. The camera impassively scans and as a nursery, with all its baby accessories and tourist, avoids Louise's full face and full body. There are no close ups. Later, in the dense sequence exploring mirrors, the camera roams deepened to the multiple reflections enacting Laura's in theory,acting Laura's theory Sorry. Into multiple reflections, enacting l's theory of the mirror phase, when the baby first recognises themselves as the being separate from the man. At the same time, the sustaining shot, this sustained shot, also responds to Joan Reieres, famous essay of 1929 on Womliness's masquerade. For we see Maxine, the black woman, who is Louise's new friend and comrade, her sister in the struggle, the Union sport, and her childcare campaign. We see her making herself up in a small mirror. The way a woman's identity is fashioned by the images society projects on a woman with the capital W again. AID as an uneasy and indeed unhappy element to the film, the idea of motherhood clashes painfully with the isolation and difficulties Louise is experiencing. The voiceover murmurs, "Society wants women to work, even needs them to, but denies them facilities, and often seems to be punishing them, believing their proper place. This really resonated for me. I was trying, at the time, to face the same conundrums in my book about the Virgin Mary, which focussed on the impossible myth of the Madonna and Virgin. The 160 degree revolutions consciously dethrones the monolithic first person gaze. 




The entitled nail gaze, which Laura Muley has certainly punured lost and critique in the visual pleasure in art of cinema, years before that this was made. In this way, riddles is not only about theoretical assumptions. It is actively adopts. It actively adopts practical strategies to replace them. The film was made in a period when these questions were being put more dynamically than they are now, I think, and possibilities speculative, radical, were being proposed. Le Guin in the left hand of darkness, describes an anarchist, utopia, in the future, on another planet called Gethan, in which binary gender no longer exists, and every Gethenian becomes either male or female, during a smooth can become either male or female, they all one or. During a monthly period, when they come into what is she calls camera, a form of heat. Or if you like a form of v through. Five years later, in 1974, three years before riddles, Lein experimented with another model in the dispossessed, Another novel. In the anarchist Utopia Utopia Venares, men and women are equal do not live in family units unless they choose to. And while all children are brought up and all children are brought up community. Laura Marvey and Peter Wallen weren't entirely alone in their quest for an epysalological and social revolution. John Burger and with seeing opened the eyes of generation, and many feminist tackled the condition of women in relation to one another and to men, to lasting in fact. Laura and Peter's film work and essays grew out of a community, a thinking, talking together. Julie Mitchell, the artist Mary Kelly, a in credits, feminist here in the ' 60s, and '70s were exploring communes, shared parenting, wages for housework, better conditions, people low paid women and local c. Meanwhile, during the decade before, Len Siegel and Jake Sheila Rogotam created a commune in Highbury, common Kil found itago books, and the editors's of Spare R acted as a connected sisterhood. Is a half century since riddles was made, and is dismaying that nearly the questions at his heart are no less vexing. Some of it has dated the flares, the haircuts, the teleph switchboard, the analogue film schools and editing machines, have all disappeared, become period pieces. But the issues have not gone away. childcare, women's multitasking, men's role in the family, fatherhood, motherhood, friendship and allowances between women of different social class. Who does the caring? Who will do the caring in the future? The wills of the Sphinx remain unanswered. It is a bold, poetic, and thoughtful work, which has not lost any of its questioning power. Thank you. 






