# Wanda and Beyond: The World of Barbara Loden The Chelsea Girls

# 

Wanda and Beyond: The World of Barbara Loden The Chelsea Girls
+ intro by season curator Elena Gorfinkel
A group portrait in split-screen achieved through double-projection, the Factory's habitues and glittering superstars hypnotically monologue and playact themselves for Andy Warhol's camera in the Chelsea Hotel.
Comprised of 12 unedited 16mm reels, four in colour and eight in black and white, The Chelsea Girls oscillates between scripted and improvised elements, as the faces, gestures, and eccentric personalities of the 1960s New York demimonde come into resplendent view.
bfi.org.uk
The title of The Chelsea Girls refers to a New York hotel fabled for the Bohemian lifestyles of its resident artists, actors, and musicians. The film itself is physically structured like a building: pairs of reels passing in double-screen like pairs of windows through which we are offered various intimate glimpses of the exotic, desperate lives of the film's countercultural residents. The relation between the hotel and this film is not simply a narrative device: in fact, the Chelsea Hotel was home to a number of Warhol's superstars, and several reels of this film were shot in their rooms.
The Chelsea Girls thus contains of a number of separate stories, one or two reels long, each of which focuses on a different set of characters, and few of which were strictly fictional in concept. Of the twelve reels, only three were based on scenarios written by Ronald Tavel; the rest of the reels present some of Warhol's strongest superstar personalities in what were essentially self-created performances - 'acting' in which, as Warhol put it, 'everybody went right on doing what they'd always done - being themselves or doing one of their routines, which was usually the same thing, in front of the camera.' For example, Ondine's high camp performance as the Pope in Reels One and Eleven was a role or a routine he himself had created and often assumed in his real, off-screen life, hearing confessions in his booth at the San Remo Coffee Shop, where Warhol had first met him, or sweeping around the Factory in a cape. Yet this 'real-life' role playing becomes extraordinarily intensified in The Chelsea Girls, especially in the stunning moment when Ondine loses his temper and physically attacks Ronna Page, thus disrupting the nominal pretence of the scene and nearly bringing a halt to the filmmaking. Warhol's repeated opinion that this shocking scene was the best thing he ever captured on film suggests that the realistic pyschodramas portrayed in The Chelsea Girls were one of the compelling interests of his filmmaking.
The Chelsea Girls remains unique in the history of cinema as the only genuinely avant-garde film to make a completely successful transition from 'underground' exhibition into extensive commercial release. The national attention which The Chelsea Girls received in the late 1960s reflects the film's importance as a cultural document of the period. For moviegoers alarmed or intrigued by the emerging drug culture, by the anti-war movement or by the new freedoms of artistic, political, and sexual expression that emerged in that decade, The Chelsea Girls functioned as a fairly realistic ethnography of those countercultures, a semi-documentary in which they could see a real drag queen, real homosexuals, real drug users and real drug dealers, the beautiful and lost younger generation whose anomie reflected whatever it was that was supposedly wrong with American society today. The Chelsea Girls is one of the seminal works in the on-going process through which American culture continues to come to terms with its experience of the sixties.
Callie Angell, 'The Films of Andy Warhol - A Selection', in Andy Warhol: 1956-86: Mirror of His Time (Tokyo: Asahi Shimbun and Museum of Contemporary Art, 1996)
Reviews of 'The Chelsea Girls'
'I saw a film the other night, after seeing films here at Lincoln Center (and they were pretty good), but on Friday at 8 o'clock, I saw a new film by Andy Warhol which was on two screens, and sometimes three projectors going... at one point there were three colour films projected on two screens... and it was one of the most mind-widening experiences, it made me more aware what was possible to do with colour than anything I've seen here. I think that if they showed this four-hour Warhol movie at the Philharmonic Hall, it would be a public disaster, a commercial disaster and aesthetically very daring.' (Henry Geldzahler at the New York Film Festival Symposium on Intermedia,
20 September 1966)
'What is The Chelsea Girls? It is Warhol's most ambitious work to date. It is also probably his most important work to date. It is an epic movie-novel. During the four hours, a huge gallery of people pass by, a gallery of complex lives, faces fates. The film is conceived as a series of rooms at the Chelsea Hotel, two rooms projected side by side at the same time, with different people in different rooms, or sometimes overlapping. Many strange lives open before our eyes, some of them enacted, some real.' (Jonas Mekas, The Village Voice, 29 September 1966)
In The Chelsea Girls I found three of the most extraordinary sequences of the cinema I've ever seen. Since seeing it, l've been continually haunted by the movie's beauty and power. Anyone seriously interested in films must see Warhol's new movie because it goes into a whole new dimension.' (Shirley Clarke)