# Sorry, #um yeah, maybe just because Daniel said we had this kind of…

# 

Sorry, #um yeah, maybe just because Daniel said we had this kind of special screening that is figuring both the end of the retrospective and the premiere of this film. So we can speak a bit about your filmmaking. In its entirety, but also this one is a very that it's in some ways it's all that. There's lots of similarities and then some like the similar side of them is good. What, what's the, I don't know this? Oh, it's just my wrong thing. Maybe we can start, but there's a lot of some people who have seen a lot of your phones in the retrospective, and there's a lot to do with literary adaption throughout of various rights. So do with the, with the adaption of text. Yeah, some of the books and stuff. Oh yes. And this, again, has that, that's the adoption of, well, the recitation, of the story, Bajwa, real femendish, George. It was very convenient, very well with time, you know. God, I didn't know what to do when it, and then the tell, the text wrote that, I'm sorry, I'm very tired. So, it happened that the text he wrote was that after a big lunch I had with him, where I was talking and talking about the journey, please. And so, after that, he wrote the, the story, and when I see the, I have these texts, it helps me a lot, because I get a bit out of meat. It's not me anymore. It's the other one talking. And it's a great relief to have the text on Ramiguel. So this, this case, it was not the film that came after the text, it was like a coincidence of situations. I did not think I'm going to adapt to this novel. It came with the idea of... Because there's two parts, there's two beginnings to... is it enough okay There's two beginnings of the film because there's both the story and there's your personal biography that goes. So it begins with a trip you took to Greece in 2007 also. #um but then becomes this of the. This other thing entirely, maybe through the facts of the collaboration with this kind of bevvy, this group of young, beautiful people that are offensive in the end a little bit. Suggesting that the problem was. Sporing for people and having to, to, to listen to all this story because, you know, you were the large number here, me speaking then, I get very tired of listening to myself. But I don't think it's very interesting if you like it. But resume, resume, resume, in short. Right now, how to short is like, I I made this journey to this in 2007. And it was a special drug. It's not like it's, they say the programme now was not diagnostic. There's a concert, but I was diagnostic, very, very not, not that name, but I was going there, you know? So I decided to take the journey to Greece because I always wanted to go to Greece in my last, since I was 13, you know, since I'm, since school, I was fascinated with the Greek art and all that, and we come from there. They tell me, so I want to go to the place. Never happened, so I decided to go there before it's too late, because I was feeling perfectly all right. Uh, and so I thought it's time to go. And I bought the ticket, and I went, and it was, uh, uh, It's very difficult to describe. I think I tried to make the film to explain what happened there. So, um, but it was difficult to, to make a film talking about a personal experience. Um, and then I went to, to a school in San Sebastia, uh, that supported that followed me the material and lights and sound, the equipment, and and all. Because I've been there making the time of what they call a residence with the students. And, uh, Maria and Deenum were still, they were in the class. I was there for a few weeks, and I didn't know what to do in Taba Calera with 18 or 20 people, young, young people, that have already made films, that are all the way. They don't need anything, they do. They are in festivals, they are authors, they, what do I have to say? But, like, um, I thought maybe I could translate the script I have was, and in Spanish. And so maybe they could have add something, maybe help me to solve the problem, how to make this film. It didn't happen. I was there 3 weeks, but nothing came to the few. We made other things. In the end, one of the students told me, but what are you waiting for? Do you have all your needs? And so I was going to the train to go back to Lisbon and. The director of the school told me if you want to film, we can borrow you the material. So. But one, yeah, I'm a bit lucky. So, as I never had the suspension to do it three times, you had been in company in the tribe, but no, I decided to to do it and Bingham, that passed in Risbon, send me a photograph in the, from a painting, I was speaking about in the book, and I said, are you in this one? And he was with Maria. So it was very easy because I didn't have to choose between the 18. Everybody wanted to go to the beach. So they tag, and... And then once, on top, someone will already have work with me in Lucteriu, for example. And and now who is an actor, he acted until they came to help me and to do the film with me. One of the, like, and so, yeah, #um. And me, one of the interesting consequences of bit of how you assembled this team like this is that everybody is speaking in a different language and someone behind it in those greetings said why is he speaking English when Bingham started reading the poem? And maybe, cause this happens in other films in the film in the or true and kitten, the Kegelstadt trio and. He didn't speak French, but was was acting in French and maybe if you could talk a little bit about what what is interesting to you. In working, but so much between different. Languages and sort of linguistic literary traditions as well like what the misunderstandings are just the sounds of different languages or. Why do you always return to that in films? It feels also quite like 20s anime. If I understand you, why, why the languages, several languages, and the, and the, the, It happens, you know, it happens. It happens. I mean, I speak English, I speak French, I French friends I have. And I like people and I I didn't like I like very much piano. And I like very much, and I like, and I am very curious to know. What happens if that would then is playing together? Uh, but Piernaon never speak Portuguese, so, and uh, um, this is the case of the true when, the, the ground would not, could not speak French. She learned by right ear, you know, all the, all the, all the tax is incredible. So in this case, uh, I have the poems in, in, in English. It's Spider, and then, oh, and so I don't need to translate. It's much better to have the effect if that, if that is being a that can speak. Nice English and and either I would need to, to, to have some Greek as well. So, because I was very lucky to make Lucianos, you know, Lucianos came last last minute. When we arrived in Athens, I read, I met him at dinner and and in the end, at the end of the dinner, he was suddenly, he was in the street and he was speaking French. And I said, Well, do you speak French? Would you like to say, uh, this text and I said yes, I would. So we went to the islands and when we came back to Athens, it came with us to dance with the film. The film, the comeus scene, and so. But to, to, so. Yeah, you can do it. I don't know. I feel, I mean, if you are, after all, these talking and talking, if you have anything that you would like me to... I would like to hear. Hi, Rita. Hello, sorry. I'm a huge fan of your work #um. I love that they're all about love you know not many people are making epics romances and I think your films kind of are. I am interested why you always return to love as like the central subject, impossible love, tragic love. Or loves the kind of workout like chemical strike, true. He's dead what life is about anyway. Yes, it's not. That's it's life. Indeed, I don't know. Yeah. Yes, I think it's #ah. Something we. We all want to be loved now. Sometimes, yes, sometimes we don't get it, but that's what we are here for and. Yes. Thank you. Sorry, in the. Yeah, not only there is all there, but all the way I speak a lot about that to film. Like in the song when when Maria Farantuli is is translating. The lyrics for you and the song is about like how poets will always be alone and this and it's. The whole film is about how that's not true because all of the like through art making. #Ah, both of this film with all of the other young filmmakers, but also #um the sort of correspondences between art forms you go into find. That's another loneliness, really being alone, in a sense, Maria Palato says, as I understand, it's very difficult to share, you know? It doesn't make you are all alone in life, you can take the boat, make a film together, then have. Yes, but there is a, the very personal voice and you cannot, if it's a, it's a big that, as I understand, yes. Could you speak a little bit about the impulse to go and find Maria in this phone to revisit the to find her voice after you first encountered it? In 2000. Could you just talk a bit about it? I guess in in both a practical way and in what? What felt like poetically appropriate about it for you and going to find Maria? The voice, you know, it's the voice because it's true when when I was there that. That 1st time I went in 2007, I arrived in a tennis. It's the exact as it is in the film. There was milk in here, it's the fire. I don't know if you recall some of you, maybe in 2007, there was this huge pile that crossed out a Piliponeseo. It was a project to build a highway. This happened a few days before I leave, and I had already the ticket, so my friends would say you should not go there. It's there. I went and that night. I, when I get out to dinner, I rather tell tell if the leg is going to go up for dinner, then going down, I have asked the hotel if it's possible to, to visit the theatre, the amphitiatre, in a cropy, and they said, no, it's close. It's impossible. But when I went down, there was a crowd, a huge crowds down, and it was real Fitiatro. There was a concert, and I didn't go to dinner, so I waited, waited. I could go in. And in the end, they were all the singers from all the islands and the famous Greek singers from all over, and in the end, this lady went upstage and started to sing, to sing, and I was very close. I was very lucky because as I entered the amphitheatric, like just to have a look. I was in the first rows, you know. So I was very close, and I, when I hear her singing, And I said, yes, I'm fine. Finally felt that I was arriving in Greece. This was the door. So, when I went to make the film, I was trying to protect her instead, but she's amazing, really, because of the... the Madonna... I I said, males, I tried to talk. Do you know someone who could? I talk to people in the cinema there in the tennis. I do everything I can. I tell myers and myers. And nothing happens. I have too well. So we are filming, and I got a mail saying, you can come, um, not her, but the sister, uh, so and so at 5 o'clock. So I, I, I changed the schedule and I went, went straight to Athens. It was the last thing we filmed. And when we come, she doesn't understand what I'm doing, why we are here. She sees not me, but my group of people. I ask if I can put the equipment in the hall. Not to leave it in the car. And 15 minutes later, we have the tripod and we were filming. And she's obviously, um, Very genres and I think she's, she receives us like if we are older, familiar with people, you know. It's... So it was the vice. And I was very touched because I could, I only when I was to live to Greece to film, I discovered that Maria Felatori was the one I had heard before because we were looking for things in YouTube and so and so. As well, there was a little film. Uh, from met from a television or some net in a 2007 in Greece, that filmed a concert where I was. And when you see the, the, the, the, full of people, I'm one of the, I see myself there sitting here. Can I see the emotion? So, and then I go and discovered, let me see who are the singers, and I see Maria Falanturi, and I have been listening to Greek songs, and I like this voice, and I like this voice. Actually now, it was the same. So I really want... And then in the end, I could have finally, uh, spent all the afternoon, proud of her, and yeah. Not at me, but it's something that's that's a question of love. You know that. Because you speak a little bit about the #um. A kind of different image qualities in the film you know how you found you have this video from YouTube that you found yourself in, but then there's also like the super eight and then these strange. The like glitches with the flowers at the end and these kind of things. Or maybe you could. I mean, there's not, there's not much to say about that. It's what it is, a silly thing. anyway Why not? Because, I also thought, we are in an airport, where there's a little bit, I have this idea that it's the, it's the ruin of something of image, in the sense of, it's so, so, so, so frequently, images all day long, this and that and that, it's kind of a ruin of cinema as well. And the ruins are in Greece, are there. So I try to also to make very much kind of a break it or and I have this. British venue is an Indian, yeah, man that I met in June when I was there. He was studying cinema and now he's making films and he's teaching because this was long ago. And some, and sometimes they send me some, send me some. Experience, she might be like, kind of a thing that I don't really care, but it's not my, I don't remember at all. But what he does is very special. And so, when I wanted to, like, rip the image, and I said, Can you try to do something with it? And we were my, was very, it was delicious. We were mailing, and sending things, and I said, now, not put a, takes a green away, put this and that, and it made experiences, and they send me. So I thought, uh, how to describe, I don't know, how to describe in images. It's a silly thing. She's embracing the stone, and the stone is hot, and she feels good. And, you know, these glittening things that you normally see in summer when the sun comes to the stall and makes life. So I, it's a bit of fantasy, but why not? And I tried to... Do, and I think the image that gives you a little bit of sensation of summer brilliance, you know. And it's what I felt because it is true. It was me hanging. in 2007. Yeah, I broke the law. I jumped in the temple, and I impressed the statue, and it was really inviting to stay, you know? Like when you come out of the sea, and there is the hot set. So, it was a, it's covered that I, that I got back in this. Hello, thank you for that. I have a very simple question. Why all the scenes in the chess cafe? At, uh, why not? I like it, you know. But it's a good question, because when I feel bad, I like it. That's maybe a reason, maybe maybe, but maybe not a reason enough. 'Cause I like it, but then I have to think, does it fit the film? Why is this happening in the film? And why do they, why the chess, and why the, and why the, it's, it's a war, bishops, and horses, and, you know, strategy. And I thought, and it's the real life that I like to touch, even if I'm flirting there or something. I don't know. But I belong here. I mean, my, my feet are on hers, and I also suffer when I have to, I have to go to the dentist that I don't like traffic like everyone. And so, uh, it's contact with, um, with a daily life, and these guys were, and I like the idea of the, uh, of the player, that is in a kind of, uh, uh, secret meditation and absolves absent from everything. traffic, television, doesn't matter. They are concentrated on the game. It's the game. This is rain as well, right? So, this can be whatever you want. It can be, that's, yes, can be... Hi Rita, #um thank you so much for sharing that. That was wonderful. I noticed that you, you got to go to the island of Delos twice in your film and I've been there. I thought it was a very atmospheric place. I was wondering how you reflected on that place, particularly visiting it at different times and maybe having an expectation of what it might be like when you returned. Yes, this was really something I wanted to do. You know, when I got to place the first time, I had to have, like, a leader or something, to, and it was the god, a ball, uh, the dog, my god, because I like very much mythology, so I had a little bit. Pocket dictionary, do you get Greek mythology? And I was after going after a ball, and then I start reading things. about, and I discovered that dealers is really the centre of, uh, of, uh, the civilisation, what, where, where they were all gathering there for kind of festival. I don't know if fun in 4 years, commerce and all that, but also theatre and da da da da. For a week, and they were, they were, they had to leave afterwards because it's sacred soil. And you cannot be born there, and you cannot die there. And during the festival, if you were to have a child, or you would go to the island, to the neighbour island. Or if you are die, if you die, you, you have to be buried there, not in in Dilos. And I like the legend. The legend says that if I don't know if you, maybe you want to, I mean, to stop in the legend says that those. Um, okay, #um, Anna is very jealous of #ah. Because those are an affair, I'm I'm tired. So I have an affair with Ledo. And error is very jealous, and she doesn't allow her to have the child anywhere in Greece. And she says, There she is the mother of the earth. Don't allow her to give birth to the child anywhere in Greece. got pity of her, and fixed this floating island, they loose to the ground, because it was a floating island. So that Leato could get there and have birth and give birth to the children. It was Germany. Apollo and Atemisia, the sister of Apollo were born there. So it's sacred land. I like the idea. So I want to believe that I want to believe that there is a peace. It's a very small island, five kilometres or something. This piece of land, there is not human blood, human blood, you know? And it's a second land, so I feel that fantasy coming all over me when I'm there. It's really something. And scientifically, I read some article that saying that, besides the history and the commercial and all, the importance of the, the, the, the, the site, it's the side, the place in the planet, on the globe. Where there is more instruments of light, you know? More luminous y dogs, and I like that, and it's a, a parlour, the, the god. Why don't they go there? So many islands, and it's the centre of the Sicladus. So I see the big eye. I like to fantasise also the big eye of sequence. And they looks like the where the light reaches with most strengths on earth, they say. I like to believe that, and that for some reason, they decide that it's gonna be there, you know? Like in Dildo, in the Alfus, the legend says that, for Zeos, once again, Zeos, wanted to mark the centre of the world. So he, how do you say, he said two eagles, and he said the, the place where the two eagles cross is the centre of the earth, Delphus. I like this. But you have been there. It's something like very strange there. It's an amazing place. I think there's very few places I've been that have that. I know, you know, to be another age. I think it's an amazing place. I think there's very few places I've been that have that instant atmosphere and I entirely relate to that idea of the centre of the sick ladies and their being rings going outwards from it. And when you were there, what are you aware of that, of that big centre? Well, I did climb up the mountain, and at the top of that, you could kind of see a little bit how you sit within at least the most immediate islands. But I think that, I mean, perhaps it's perhaps it's imagination, perhaps it's all wanting to believe, but there's certainly a very special feeling to the island. Yes, maybe it's your imagination, but there's no scene on imagination. No, I think it's, and besides that, even, like, even knowing what it's a very recent archeological discover. They are, the archeological, people are digging, and digging, and studying, and I investigating. But at the same time, the island is going down the sea. Yes. So, it's a nearly, and it's a bit like, it's a, every birthday of humankind. One side with admiration for this place will tell us a lot about ourselves. We will study, we will understand, we will find the whatever and all the explanations, we have to have all the explanations. So let's begin the and it's interesting and don't break and don't touch. And then, and then, and then they let it go down. And as they, as an article of the Academie, Francaise Attend, which is the, the ones who look after the study archeologic study of the sites. Says that in 50 years, the others will be under water. Maybe it's a bit exaggerated, but anyway, it is already some. you can see already some part of the of the site is underwater already. Well, I wanted to thank her that we are Greeks, and, you know, the church that you mentioned is that I have favourite chairs, and I wanted to thank you for your so sensitive portrayals of Greece, especially now with overtourism. All this sacredness and the spirituality, I think, gets lost, and you show that... Do you like? Yes, yes, yes, yes. No, I wrote my mom too, because she's visiting, but I've seen her earlier films, and then there's one part in the film that you speak about, the candle, after it's burning and how it melts, and it curves, and it becomes deformed. And many times, when we think of Greece, it's very monolithic. The representation of it. So I was very curious to see how, how you, you know, encounter this challenge of what increased mean to you and how does it heal you? Because many of us go to Greece for healing, even if we are Greeks ourselves. I thought a lot of times you also focus on departure and living, you know, and being something. So we were very emotional, both of us, and still are. I don't know what to say, but really not. You know. The purchase is always. Yes, so. I don't know. I know I would. I would not dare that Greece is a healing but. Really, it is. Uh, I want to spell in love there, so what what can you have found anything better? Really, it happens. Maybe the sun, the light, the stories that tell us, but it's not, and there is another thing. It's the people, the Greek people. Not even we see it in the eyes and yes, they are because they are. Okay, they live a lot on tourism. Tourism is a great place for support living in Greece, right? But I have experiences of like being in the in pot wash. And then there is a tavern. Lots of flies and this old lady, a little heavy.

